--oveloaded... Reset Priority?
LG web java self-study
LG c++ study
maintain yoga
reduce cooking
coding drill? Stop after Indeed
--coding drill for indeed:
small problems using lot of python data structures
fuxi python blog posts
list comp
define classes with fields
combine multiple lines to 1
triple quote comments
--new blog: jxee^core java
jxee (esp. web java) is fashionable ... high growth, big job pool

in terms of churn, :) core java < jxee
I am proven right.

In terms of shelf life, jxee <<< core java :(
I am proven right.
Is there some jxee component with stable demand and accu? Spring? Servlet is very relevant but not quizzed in IV! 

in terms of project LOE, :) core java =< jxee, due to complexities in each jxee package and when you combine things in non-standard combinations. See my blog on spring.

in terms of IV body building and entry barrier, jxee < core java < cpp. I struggled with cpp IV for years but was able to crack c# IV more quickly. 

jxee skills are less elite, easy to self-study and often shallow by nature. 
All the complexities are hidden until you combine things it in a non-standad way.

In terms of salary, jxee = core java = cpp.
I was proven wrong.

Even though c++ and core java are harder and more elitist, they don't pay higher.

in terms of market depth+size, cpp < core java < jxee
core java is mostly limited to ibanks + buy-side. jxee offers superior market depth
I feel the job pool is growing for jxee not for core java or cpp. Similarly, job pool is growing for javascript, mobile, big data, cloud

No need to experiment at home or read books like I did on JMS, EJB, Spring. It takes too much time but doesn't really give me confidence.

--notes on hibernate timing
get an offer by Oct, before end of season, so I can spend more time with grandparents and also save my 6Y. The more years I have, the more flexible with employer change

--propose to Jay
beware of information leak. Better send after getting some SG offers

Hi Jay,

Here's a new proposal
* I will take an unpaid sabbatical for about 20 months
starting Jul (or Aug..) 2019
* will rejoin CEM in spring 2021, on my own to set things up for the family. I will then bring my family over before my son turns 13 in Aug 2019.

Reason 1: to spend a few years with my aging parents. My last chance, as my dad is too old travel to the U.S.
Reason 2: More Chinese education for my kids, but my son needs to leave Singapore before turning 13 to avoid a heavy NationalService liability deposit
Reason : My h1b 6-year cap is limited. It's advantageous for me to save it by waiting for my green card outside U.S. I can "recapture" the 20 months spent outside the U.S.
Reason (minor): income and cost -- there's cost saving in living with family. Please note higher salary is not so important to me. As you know I have walked away from higher offers many times (Morgan Stanley, Pimco etc). I'm impressed with your flexibility, efficiency and trustworthiness so I plan to stay with your firm when I return.

Legal questions:
Q: My priority date will be unaffected since CEM won't revoke my i-140?

My decision is not finalized. If no good plan, then I can bring my family over in 2019 or 2020.

--email already sent out
今天收到美国移民部 I-140 批准函， 我正式完成绿卡过程第二阶段。 再等上几年就可以拿绿卡了。 I-140 批准意味着我可以选择换雇主调高薪水， 也可考虑回新工作几年。

2021年8月大宝13岁前要离新赴美 （以避免 $75000 兵役押金）。 美国9月开学， 可以5-7月来， 暖和。

在纽约换雇主..据说不难。 我不急。

回新最早2019年8月， 最晚 12 月。 几个原因：

* 工作压力： 目前很舒服， 值得珍惜。 
* 收入： 回新可能高一些， 但在纽约换雇主也可提薪， 而不换工作。
* 开支： 回新可以省 每月 $2000 左右 包括女佣，房租，机票
* 家人团聚： 目前几个月飞一次感觉很不错。 难得老板允许我在新加坡上班。
* 找工作 11 月开始淡季， 因此最晚 2019年10月找到工作， 最多要求推迟2个月上班。 
* 如果 2019年10月没找到工作，就2020年初再试。 不理想 -- 浪费我仅有的 6 年自由。 幸好仅浪费几个月。
