--no blogpost
Most of the time, interviewers find candidate's experience too high-level, but Mark actually felt I lack experience using high-level libraries

I feel contrary to what he says, most emplyers appreciate low-level coding capabilities .. more precious

--3 todo's for Mark
1) simple question -- which c++ library would you use to implement an http endpoint
2) comment on Liquid API
3) any github content to share. I don't need to struggle here. I can send him a zipped copy of some of my stuff

--new blogpost Quoine IV
Q: what's the purpose of the integrated feed?
Q: what if some clients connect by a slow internet connection and your orderbook feed need to provide delta updates each time a client reconnects.
Q: given a random string of bracket openers/closers, write a bool function to determine if it's balanced
..  every closer must follow its matching opener
%%A: Now I feel no stack needed. Just use an int to keep count of unclosed brackets.

Q5: in your work do you use any external libraries
%%A: I know enough STL, but this project doesn't use any heap allocation. Some projects use a lot of boost libraries.

Q5b: in that case how would you implement a basic http endpoint?
%%A: I would write it in python, c# or java
Q5c: but all of your data and functions are in c++
%%A: I would use socket api, but I agree this is such a common task that there must be a number of libraries

Q: any github profile?
--new blogpost
node.js outperforms c# in terms of I/O like connecting to a remote exchange 

--LGlp research
how is docker container popular on cloud? 
--update blog
PendingReview -- for now, I will use this for existing blogposts that require review
Draft CAN be used this way, but in practice used for new posts
--new blogpost: 45-min commute when living with/out family
After my son was born in NY, my 50-minute commute (Hamilton) vs 35-min commute (Newport) felt very differnt
1-hr commute feels OK at mvea because ... no family and low workload
living with family, i predict i would again feel a big difference of 15 min change in commute

Many people feel such a prediction is highly unreliable, but I feel past experience is very reliable

staying with family, I get basically no time for study and very limited time for blogging.. about 5hr/week but I need 20-40 hr/week !!
--new blog: yoga=no visPgress no long-term impact
I wonder why I feel so motivated to keep up the effort
i think it's all about prevention .. of body aging
--yoga
how to be less hard pushing?
how to reward myself more?
--where to put the reminder below? Put in on google calendar once a day
"alt-shift -- changes input language as the windows standard"

--no blogpost d-resort review (low value ... avoid Oth)
:) as planned, did some stretching and coding drill, but I basically forgot it !
:) as planned, boy did lots of math 
--healthy diet tips given by SG HPB #orange
recommended -- sugar substitutes; sugar-free drinks; Chinese tea
orange is safe even though not leanest. Orange is not as low-cal as some veg but Singapore HPB (and many experts would agree) picked orange as the safest food. 

--new blogpost
a food with 0g fat or 0% DV of fat still has some fat if calories from fat is nonzero
--no blogpost
shenzhen salary: RMB 350k/Y
