-- update ED
For many years, wife rejected or neglected my needs, so we had many devatating derailers in addition to my internal difficulties.

Now the only problem is my own problem, much better than before. No complaint, no bitterness.

-- new:pill^device^surgery
Rather few people in Singapore are aware of the surgery, but it is fairly safe n durable (10Y warrantee). Main drawback: irreversible -- once the implant is worn out, you need another implant, since your spongy tissue is gone. As such, it is suitable at an older age.

pill is the first suggestion by any doctor. If you are unable to get an erection without the pill, then Dr Teo said it could mean you have some blood flow issue. Sounds like many men can use the pill on a temporary basis.

Pump is a medical grade device. Perhaps safer than sex toys.

(After medical check-up) Counselling can reduce stress and confusion. Martha Lee is reputable, but probably expensive.
-- update (not new!)
sexual gratification (actually, longer active sex life) is sometimes more important to me than improving BMI to 64 kg

BMI helps my CRE and chin-up, but those things are far less important than deep-green.

64 kg may come at a price in terms of muscle loss, but am not convinced.

BMI is more important than early sleep, but early sleep probably helps my diet.

-- upate which bpost
Compare Sg vs U.S. BMI

I suspect that my Sg workout is more than U.S. workout, in terms of calory burned, and my Sg calory intake is similar to U.S.

We don't know the exact calory numbers. It's possible that in SG the measurable calory in my diet is similar to U.S., but the energy taken in by the body is higher.

Perhaps the base metabolic rate is lower in Sg.

Perhaps my body retains more water in Sg than in U.S.

-- new: Japanese diet advantage: small portions
Doctor Lynne Lim pointed out that Japanese diet features many small dishes. She said those small portions are important. 

When asked about "challenges posed by modern life", she again mentioned meal portion control as a challenge of modern life. She compared us to pre-modern (I would say pre-industriizlied) people -- "They gardened, farmed, walked to reach places, ate simply, reveled in communal gatherings, laughed and slept easy." 

Among those items, the last one "slept easy" strikes me as the most enviable. 

I would say easy sleep is not a complete test but an acid test of healthy lifestyle.

My father is full of wisdom, but is weak on this front. Dr Lim herself is also coping with occasional sleep issues, and she emphasized sleep repeatedly, as an element of physical and mental health in modern life.

In the same interview, she also pointed out Sweedish healthy diet features low-carbs

-- new or fuxi: yoga, core workout: injury prevention/protection
--new: control over BMI ... or update post on passive acceptance
Rahul was very determined and in-control, but he might be slightly overweight.

Many of my colleagues are overweight. I tend to assume they have poor control over diet or exercise, but I could be very wrong. 

Some slim individuals are not really better at self-control. I guess they are just lucky.

This "control" is central to successZ, but if our "system" is hard to control, then I think we need harmony. See the bpost on serenity

-- update bpost on 5/wk
Q: Regarding my active-day defninitions, how long (years) will they stay relevant?
A: I choose to be optmistic and believe in myself, so 5Y at least.

I want to rationalize and refine my definitions.
Two ways to measure aggregate amount of daily workout -- 1) physical 2) effort

Effort means self-regulation, combatting the (natural) tendency to quit. Classes always help easy self-regulation.

Physical measure ignores self-regulation or any mental exertion. It is based on measurable output by muscles, cardio, perspiration, heartbeat, 

eg: Hatha or yin Yoga is low physical
eg: Adding up (vertically) stairs/day .. is high physical, low effort, but continuous climbing is higher effort.
eg: Jogging is high physical, low effort 
eg: Rope-skipp is very boring, therefore high effort.

"Low effort" is relative and never means easy. Keeping up active days, hitting 3 active days a week for a month is absolutely demanding and never easy, regardlessof the workout.

my 5/wk routine is the /exemplification/ of successZ, and really tough except during a few weeks when I'm motivated and confident. (However, such a power surge "honeymoon" rarely lasts a month.)

Most adults (like 98%) after leaving school/army and before retirement would find it really tough. (Servicemen and Pre-college students are different because they have physical training + fitness tests.)
In their views, which type of workout of this bpost is most frequently questioned as too light? 
A: skiprope, squat... but "their view" is based on popular perception only.

In my own view which workout is most frequently questioned as too light?
A: skiprope, stairs

Frequency is the key and also the real challenge. To maintain frequency, I increase variety, and incorporate incentives.

-- update one of the bposts on smoothie

Gula syrup is more efficient but more expensive than condensed milk

Need to improve efficiency with chia, wash-up, ice(!)

-- new: itchy sleep
* 40-degree wash/tumble-dry bedsheets and pajamas
* vacuum matteress reguarly

-- update or new:
future blood tests: include full blood count and blood sugar check

-- jolt
when people say avocado, nuts, salman...are good for slimming, and backed by research, they mean "better than the mainstream junk foods".

If you are already on healthy diet, then the foods above could be less healthy than your current diet!
