-- new Linus.T
Linus is one of my top 10 visionary leader, alongside LKY, Warren Buffett, Deng XiaoPing, Bill Gates, Jack Ma, 
* not a college dropout
* not slim
* contributed 2% of linux kernel codebase
* somehow became U.S. citizen
* proud, outspoken, bold, 

-- update https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/4809/effirepair-things-at-home/
vertical monitor no longer sliding down
stand`desk retractable handle fixes
good usage of black+whiteboard

-- new: snap
I like this informal variation of "snapshot". It's short and versatile

snapping -- technical term for the process of creating a snap
a snap -- a single snapshot

-- fallback ^ backup
fineDiff
backup has a confusing meaning in my (techie) world, so I always say "backup plan"

Fallback -> if defeated by something.
Backup -> as a sensible alternative/insurance.

-- update bpost on R vs B complexities
If you feel too old or too busy, and don't want these pff complexities, then you pay for advice from banks or financial advisors.
Rarely you get free advisory service (remember FSM and Phillip), unless during the sale process.

S27 buying using SRS? I think we can slowly learn to treat it as RRecreational.

-- update bpost on death benefit
MLP group-CI is late-stage-37CI

-- CiticTrust deal #fuxi
The bare room fee monthly (excl. 2.5k) x 36 deposited to your personal CiticTrust account. Suppose 10k/M. Each month, discounted amount (eg: 9k) is auto-paid to DJDJ.

discount is only on room fee, not 2.5k, not 护理 fee

online access to CitiTrust account?  mobileApp only. No website

DJDJ's motivation to give 10% discount … loayalty program to soft lock in the client for long term.

~~ new: djdj fees
RMB 1000/M additional fee for Floor 11 .. is worthwhile given the expected length of stay.

~~ annual: 
Y248,966.88 + Y12,768 房费 are the first and second deposit paid in early 2024.
.. Y21,811 x 12
Y2,500 x12 第二人入住
Y3,600 x12 food
Y1,000 x12 (minimum) grandma tiered 护理 fee
Y7,000 x12 (estimated) grandpa tiered 护理 fee
------
total Y35,911 per month x 12 

~~ One-time
Y60,000 保证金 emergency deposit
Y 4,000 安置 fee

-- udpate "fast developers"
Q: can you imagine a fast doctor (perhaps travelling with soldiers) who treats lots of wounds but has a 1% error rate? If some of the errors are severe then he is disqualified and unreliable.

Q: can you imagine a restaurant chef very fast with his work, but once a while, produces a dish with salt omitted, causing complaints? (Note sometimes salt can be added later.) If too frequent, then she is disqualified.

In SWE profession, if there's a well-known error-prone coder, we often say that we constantly worry about him producing buggy code, so much so that we would rather not have him coding. The threshold of "too many missteps" depends on frequency and severity. 

A key factor is personal reputation. 

I tend to write more documentation than fellow SWE. The act of writing and rewriting detailed docs enhances my awareness of (personal) blindspots, hidden areas, edge cases. Those docs that are written for a wider audience would receive more attention from me the author.

Across a /structured/ codebase, I tend to bend over backward to enforce consistency. Inconsistency is breeding ground for bugs, so this habit can flush out some bugs.

A smaller habit is naming variables, functions and classes. I spend lots of time naming them precisely and consistently. That forces me to slow down and pay attention to some details in the logic.

All of these personal habits above slow me down, but they tend to protect my personal reputation and reduce those embarrassing or disastrous/devastating bugs.

-- udpate bpost on hedge fund PnL: 
multi-strategy/multi-manager sector of the HedgeFund industry
50 players managing $350B, which is 8.6% of industry-wide AUM $4T

G3 longest runners -- MLP, Citadel, point72

Various analyses use the two terms "multi-strategy" and "multi-manager". Each analyst has his own criteria and definition of the two terms.

-- upate bpost on addicted to employee benefits
In Macq, when I brought family in for pingpong, I was relying on staff benefits, assuming I was performing well to deserve everything.

-- new: 尽职尽责 grandpa's wisdom
My dad's wisdom of "尽职尽责/尽你所能" .. for me is hard to translate. I will translate to "as best you can". 

Avoid mistakes, avoid negative attitudes, avoid stubborn positions, avoid offending boss.. I am not a people-pleaser at all, so it's too tough to avoid "irritating the boss". 

If you struggle to meet some arbitrary expectation of the manager and feeling burned out or overstretched, then you have two choice --

You can bend over backward, learn to accept the higher expectation, higher workload as Jenny of MS described,,, slow boiling
You can perform as best you can, 尽职尽责, resist the pressure to take on more.

If employee's best effort is not enough for a given role, it's probably a "role mismatch" as Macquarie boss said. Then it would be employer's problem to deal with. If employer choose termination, then employer should do their part to "compensate", though they have no legal obligation. From a Buddhist perspective, I guess my dad's wisdom means 淡定, not holding too tight. 船到桥头自然直 as you said.

Judgement -- what's reasonable workload, and what's too much.
Sonic Jason's view -- no better job out there, so better accept.

-- slow cooking new: [24] comparing to quant3sg
In 2023 and 2024, I often feel a spike/surge in work stress, but it is actually lighter than Qz+Macq.

The proportion of challenging, stressful projects was higher, perhaps due to my "prime" age. 
I was bending over backward more in Qz+Mqcq.
Nowdays I still work weekends, but in EPA I can make slightly more meaningful progress by myself.
In Qz, I constantly felt incompetent. I was given a 6M ramp-up window

"How fast you figure things out rel to coworkers" .. Qz was stressful. Now is moderate.

Aging is a kind of background heat, or perhaps the growing elephant in the room.
Qz+Macq were supposed to be (later phase of) my "prime years" as a finDev.. high expectations from managers (also self-expectations... crushing weight.
In Qz+Macq, I felt inferior to many individuals in my age group, including ex-colleagues/classmates. 
Now I feel progressively relieved of that /baggage/.

In GS and Macq, I was initially given leadership roles... Demanding, challenging. WStC and now is better.

My WStC career plan has strengthened significantly since Macq. WStC is a viable and valualbe option, and exclusive opportunity to me, even though I need to consider CAD, grandma, and other family members.

My commute and (esp.) flexible hours are now better.
I often take time off without using my annual leave.

A big (often-overlooked) factor is the Qz job smell -- proprietary, dead-end, insufficient documentation... struggle

~~ wanted 200k salary, had no clue]2013
Paradoxically, salary seldom became a big factor in my /stressor profile/. Medical benefits.. ditto. In OC I had my lowest salary but good brbr, as always.
Lower salary in Qz+Macq didn't translate to job security :(

During 2012~2014, I had no clue how to increase salary to 200k.
Once I leave the current high ground of epa, it will be equally tough to climb back up.

I used to tell myself "Give me a chance to (get up to that high ground and) earn that high salary for a couple of years, and I can rest for 5 years".

The salary peer-comparison is both background-heat and c-ray [cosmic ray]. It hits us all the time. Sometimes a comparison result is comforting/soothing, but mostly the xpSelf notices the negative, disturbing comparison results -- FOLB.

Most of the time we are cool about FOLB, but once a while we do feel affected. 

Therefore, my current salary is not really unimportant. I often say that between two jobs at the same base salary, I would prefer the contract position because there's no bonus no appraisal. 

The older I get, the less I am affected by the c-ray/FOLB, the more I appreciate a /sustainable/ salary. Those contract positions are more acceptable.

The job title benchmark is related but out of scope.

~~ How about stressors outside office? Half-ranked by "note-worthy and specific"
My weekly workout routine has proven sustainable for 2Y(?). On this front, am pulling ahead of my cohort.
My sister has become a pillar of strength.
My marriage has proven stable and _resilient_ 
my kids have proven competent, smart (not left-behind). They are growing up healthy in every way. 
My ptf has grown perhaps by millions (in RMB), despite some small write-offs. I have learned to allocate more to SP500.
My CPF plan for retirement has strengthened. My retirement burn rate has remained stable, despite inflation. 
I have uncovered some hidden but critical health conditions. I have uncovered them early, and become more informed of a few related key risks. Am in a better position to protect my heart and other organs
I have made steady progress and completed UChicago program. No measurable ROI but many intangible benefits.

-- new: XiaoYan meet-up
XiaoYan is a kind lady. I guess she decided to spend 1.5 hours learning about the world outside PSA, and sharing experiences and observations. As I told her, this meet-up turned out to be an insightful, reflective career counselling session. She was a helpful mirror. I revealed a lot of my fears, setbacks, weaknesses,,, and received substantial support.

She suggested that job stability could become a G3 priority for my next job search in Singapore. PSA and OC are profitable and stable places -- management are extremely reluctant to retrench, even for non-performing employees.

She shared that age concern over a 55-year-old candidate (8-Y career runway ) is a real concern at hiring discussions.

She mentioned a long-term contract staff.. capable and quiet but PSA was not keen to convert such contractors to perm because removing any perm staff is always costly and painful. Sounds like employers like PSA and OC would always wait for non-performing employees to resign, including employees with bad attitude.

I reveald that my salary is now "very high" by my standard, possibly overpaid, so much so that I don't mind buying her an expensive juice. She pointed out that unlike many people in such overpaid/underworked situations, I'm conscientious about the possibility of "overpaid without heavy workload or contribution". Deep inside, I felt a warm pat on the back.

On the other hand, many people in the same firm feel underpaid as a group. This is similar to Americans feeling bad about their education systems or Sgrns feeling bad about natioal housing condition. If indeed I'm underpaid relative to the industry, then the above-mentioned "overpaid" concern is not a serious risk.

She asked why I prefer SGP to U.S. if I could find an equivalent after-tax salary (after adjusting for cost of living). I mentioned close-to-grandparents, Chinese population (better for wife), better government support, weather,,, I forgot to mention driving, street safety, wife's career.

I realized that as I age I have become more loyal, less opinionated,,,,, but I still reject the widespread advice to "put up with worsening job situation for as long as you can tolerate"

-- new: why employers prefer resignation over layoff
Layoff/retrenchment has many ramifications for the employer --

* media coverage
* image, reputation
* regulators ... tend to protect the vulnerable i.e. employees rather than employers
* potential law suit by employee
* compulsory PIP
* severance 

In rare cases, the employee is found guilt of a breach. Employer has a right to terminate her without any obligation.

-- update post on array^ptr
a ptr Object can be reseated to point to an array.
An arrayName (is not an object) can't be reseated. It's a compile-time constant.

-- new or fuxi: java: big lambdaEx^methodRef
I think a big lambdaEx (lambda expression) is usually used as an argument to a method. 

Q: can we convert the big lambdaEx to a method reference?
A: not alwaysl. In Dropcopy framework, I realized that 

* many times yes I can and should convert. LambdaEx is designed for small code blocks.
* however, if the lambdaEx uses captured variables, then conversion can be difficult. I think the new method has to add a new param for every captured variable.

-- slow cooking update bpost on deep work
Learning something "strategic" is real work.
eg: Learning for a meaningful school exam is strategic -- NUS? MSFM?
eg: Coding drill is strategic and deep work.

Some learning can be less "real". Same can be said of various paid projects. In the DeepWork context, I won't use an elaborate criteria for "real" work.

-- update bpost on miles, ..
Somehow, MLP likes to retrench old timers ... Denis Xu

-- update bpost on C
I often feel proud to say C was my first language.
Similarly, I feel proud to self-identify as a math graduate.

These domains are evergreen in terms of relevance and skill demand. 
Somehow my career[and learning] gravitates towards these /magnets/.

-- new: unhide a window
if a window dosesn't show up even though it is on the taskbar, then it's hidden somewhere. You can press 

control-shift and rightClick on the taskbar item.

-- new: bullied by shop assistants
A little more love for my still-intact heart... Frequent anger can affect blood pressure. My heart rate actually went up when confronting the bully. We get a burst of energy. If this happens often, it causes wear and tear on your artery walls. Research backs that up.

State your demnad like 'I hope you can accept your fault, and learn a lesson.' If the salesperson refuses, then at least I made my demand.

Speak slowly and avoid raising your voice.

Avoid attacking, which tends to invite counter-attacks and dangerous escalation of tension.

The salesperson is often young, untrained, and doing the job relunctantly.

-- update bpost on "something wrong"
With CAD, my appetite dropped suddenly. I stopped responding to tasty foods present in office or home.
Good or bad? I think it's good for my CAD condition. Adaptation.

-- new: CAD implications
If I go to the U.S. I will need insurance. I will need frequent medical checks and consultations. WStC jobs will be less attractive given the expensive insurance.

A PSA/OC type of lower-stress dev job will become increasingly suitable for me. I maintain a decent effort with good attitude, and they will keep my job.

I will need to get my kids to take over my rental properties.

I will scale back on long-term risky investments, and allocate more towards stable assets just like retirees do.

Once a while I envy those in my cohort who are free of "my problems". For years, I used to feel superior, lucky, one of the God's favored children because I did good deeds and took care of my body for so long. Now I feel unlucky.

A classmate was suspected for some tumor (I won't elaborate) and decided to google life expectancy for such patients. I refuse to do so. My new longevity target will become ... 85?

For about 10 years I felt like immortal whenever I tell people that I plan to live till 95. Many long-term plans were made based on that optimism.

I tend to look at my running performance as a guage of my physical decline, but now I think denial of the natural decline can be harmful. No-decline is a good sign if it is natural and managed safely, not propped up artificially.

I hope to regain my sense of optimism and gratitude.

I hope to find something good in this challenging situation. I may not find any.

-- update laptop req
Q: which features are worth something ($100+) to me?
A: weight .. for the tiny models
A: new battery capacity
A: touch screen

-- update bpost on grieving
Decades ago, many ordinary workers would spend many hour commuting by foot. They have to. 
You may feel pity for them.
But that's not a medical condition. 

-- update bpost on longevity https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=48298&action=edit
In Dec 2023 I started to worry about quality_of_life in my mom's twilight years, either in a Beijing nursing home, or a Singapore nursing home, or living with my wife (while I'm away in the U.S.), against the backdrop of her declining health.

quality_of_life is another side of VV (one of the trio).

All the scenarios appear pathetic, unappealing, scary,,, As people grow old, they are bound to experience (some or all of) mobility decline, mental decline, living away from immediate family, or outside their own comfortable n familiar home. Inevitable for many in their 80s. 

Given an elderly's health, financial and family situation, his choices are often limited. If money is not the problem (willing suspension of disbelief), then perhaps he can live with family + adequate healthcare at home [R.Teo's dad?]. Hopefully (big hope), the in-law caregivers are able to cope, supported by plenty of external resources. This "acceptable" bar is too high to be realistic.

Before I can plan ahead, I have to give up on unrealistic expectations.

How about my ADL insurance? I now feel somewhat more vindicated. 

The more children and grandchildren I have, the more resources I have available in my old age.

-- fuxi or bpost on 看家本领/hedgehog
* caring heart for my kids and my wife, even when I'm under work pressure . Not every man has it.
* conserver lifestyle burn-rate control. For these few years I'm blessed with windfall in salary + pre-inheritance but I know it will end someday so I remain a converver
* healthy lifestyle .. successZ
* GTD tech skills, including my "camp out" habit.
** JIV competence .. not directly tested over the past 4Y, but I still think it is more important than OTJ competence.

-- new slow-cooking: growing richer but not happier
"Compared to the post-war era or pre-modernization era, we are substantially richer but no happier."

This is a dominant [widely shared] observation in many countries, at both a societal and a personal level.

In contrast to satisfaction and fulfillment, "happy" is a short-term self-assessment/rating. Re hbA1c vs FPG.

I think most people won't bother to focus or reflect on everyday forgetable happiness, including those doses of delight. We need to focus our mental energy on the problems to solve. Therefore, we tend to remember our adversities [sufferings, difficulties, frustrations, setbacks, declines]. The longer we live, the more difficulties we encounter. Our happiness self-rating would tend to decline. Therefore, improving longevity tend to affect happiness rating.

Basic-healthy nutrition .. our increasing wealth makes BHN easily achievable, but in only x% of the population would BHN bring happiness. 

inflation .. (rent, medical, transport, fashion, entertainment,,,) creates long-term worry in any age group. I think in previous eras, the average people don't save so much, and don't live so long

Involuntary delay to retirement .. often due to poor retirement plann

sleep easy .. physical wealth seldom gives the individual better sleep, but granted, wealth can bring you a quiet home and flexible work hours.

tech churn in personal tech .. I think many (esp. older) adults don't want to keep learning, adjusting to new tech. Many feel forced to do so. The GUI is often designed for and tested with younger users.

isolation due to digital communication.. digital comm is a big part of economic growth, but (like many individuals), it doesn't make me happier.

More years spent taking care of sick parents.. Watching their decline somehow makes me feel less happy For Them.. pessimism.

How about mom and dad after selling the home? I think they would indeed get a better quality of life in the luxury retirement home. Grandma would become happier .. I choose to be optimistic for both of them.
