--letter: seed of break-up
Looks like the seed of breakup was planted early ... In early Dec 2019 when I consulted with you about finding external agents, you didn't tell me NCT would sever all ties with me. After I started asking other agents, I was already on a collision course with NCT and you didn't tell me.

NCT likes to negotiates hard and pushes up prices across the board lik 水涨船高. If i then sign with any other agents he would inevitably feel betrayed, exploited...even if everyone plays fair and clean.

I won't say "pacer" but his negotiation style puts him at that position. I was always transparent telling everyone "price is not the deciding factor for me." So NCT continued to push forward for 35p/o knowing I may go with another agent.

You also know that, and you seem to know NCT would be angry but you dind't tell me.

I feel I was as innocent as the lamb. I feel the only way to avoid the blame of betral was going with NCT all the way till I sell the unit. "If you are my friend, then you should not work with other agents!" That's not friendship; that's slavery. I don't appreciate such friendship and I don't keep such friends -- they are just using me.

--NCT vs Aleris
[s] next few days of short term rental
[s] past HOA dues -- Anyway I will split the savings with NCT unless I back out of the lawsuit
[s=small amount] 

.. in favor or NCT
trust
I will need to rely on NCT once a while
[s] sunk cost sharing on the initial set-up

.. in favor of Aleris
I don't know the agent behind NCT. I know Aleris to some extent.
She takes note of my preferences and tries to meet my criteria regardless of other units. NCT doesn't care about my requirements, and operates a collective instead.
has staff
more professional relationship, rather than friend friend
far better documentation
more long-term, sustainable set-up
no worry about "what if NCT stops working there"

--After the 38k figure was revealed to me, the offer from Aleris didn't move, and I didn't sign any contract.

--fuxi: ph capital gain tax (6%) is supposed to be payable by seller, but seller would pass the amount to buyer and require buyer to pay

--fuxi: why rental yield varies so much across countries
culture is one reason (Chinese^American)

Aleris said traffic jam is another reason.

--new: damage during a stay
Before a tenant moves in, agency or previous tenant would clean up and take pictures.

Any damage would be deducted from security deposit

--fuxi: some of the BGC tenants are students learning english in Manila, and their parents. 

--fuxi: Contrary to some claims, compared to 2BR studios are faster to rent out. More affordable to more tenants including students and couples. 

--new expatriation .. large amount takes weeks, but Aleris could speed it up.

--new: Ph rental yield is effectively tax-free !
No one declares it.
Tax department has no manpower for it.

most rental prop owners don't pay tax. If you tell a tax preparer you want to declare rental income, she would ask what amount you prefer to declare. No evidence needed.

--new: Manila: foreign-owned condos are a different asset compared to local-owned units.

There's overdemand from other foreign investors, not only Chinese. Due to the 40% quota on each condo building, these guys can only buy from an f existing oreign owner.

In other words, a foreigner buying from a local would break 40% quota if the builing already has 40% foreign ownership.

--fuxi: Ashish and Sachin both prefer a company not an individual, even if fees are higher.

Raymond also felt NCT is not a company.

--fuxi: PNB accounts
AT-card account 3k maintenance balance. 0.01% pa interest.

Can deposit cash in CashAcceptanceMachine at Infinity branch

CD interest is quoted pretax ... about 0.375% pa for up to P250k. Tax rate is flat 20%
