==== new: transit card: Absolutely essential
Option 1: the 亿xx app
Option 2: keep the precious transit card. Keep a "large" balance to make it valuable :)
I was able to top up using Wechat desposit [零钱]
I was able to top up using Alipay bank card

-- new: ##which China apps can "register" a mobileNumB while on SimCardA
Meituan.. tested
Alipay.. yes
ICBC .. tested
HSBC-China .. yes
Wechat .. I was using 97263200 
WechatPay ..

-- new or update: precious quiet time
Similar to Korean trip. Next time consider one more room.
Somewhat similar to 2020 circuit breaker period.

I am losing my  5/wk, my diet control (chia), my dental control, 

When I reach hotel, I now spend a few hours on "clean-up".

==== new: ## G3 frustrations
real-name .. e-payment; mobileNum; subway; bike sharing; tourist attractions;
.. extra-hard for foreigners.
need to rely on numerous mobile apps .. just as driving is to American lifestyle.
quiet time (+ personal space ] hotel) .. blogg
.. see separate blog

-- EOR
risk of losing valuables .. /background-heat/. See separate section
google blocked ..

-- worst possible losses ranked... Be conscious of the relative value of each!
passport .. 1.5M wait
iPhones
transit card
cash
~~ other items 
laptop .. seldom carried 
new purchases .. usually low value

=====
-- fuxi: last-day timing
pack up night before, so giving more breathing space to Tue morning
check out by 12.45
Take eveyrthing out of hotel 
get into taxi by 1pm
hit airport by 2.30
-- Mon
cancel wife's ChM account at night. 

-- update which bpost?
need a light n warmer shirt for next flight. If no such shirt, then rely on blanket.

yoga blocks are useful on flights .. leg stretches, convex sitting

plastic bag hungable from my bottle .. good for acceptable rubbish, my food box, reading content..

too many small bottles to bring back to Sg? Empty them, and dump into big luggage.
-- new: ChnM billing
话费 .. your account balance. Usable to pay Y18 monthly subscription, outging minutes or GB [i.e. mobile data]

Each month, rmb 18 is deducted from acct balance, without pro-ration. Around 2 July, the Y18 deduction will fail.

This specific plan [套餐] has no bundled GB or bundled minutes, so these costs are known as 套餐外xxx

PAYU [pay-as-you-use] .. rmb 3 is "auto-deducted" (from your account balance) to buy 1GB as needed. Similarly, rmb 0.19 is deducted to buy each minute of outgooing air time.

Itemized bill .. available in the app or at end of month in final bill.

ZLH account: starting balance rmb42. rmb18 deducted...
TB account: starting balance rmb28 + top-up rmb10 by grandma = rmb38. rmb18 deducted, then about rmb5 of cumulative airtime. rmb6 for 2GB.

-- update bpost on VPN
Need to accept the reality of China firewall.. Don't be bitter or resentful. China government is not completely without justification. Focus on solutions. 

Note some workhorse sites [dreamhost, github,,] are accessible by wifi but not ChnM hotspot. Don't rely on blog for important info.

Solution: pay a bit for a reliable VPN 
Solution: use git-blog .. git-push once a day via roaming-hotspotS or hotel wifi or home wifi

Tip: when hotel wifi is stable, do more git blogging.

-- fuxi: Thank God for some things on the trip
Nothing lost or stolen so far.
No one fell sick so far. No need to seek emergency medical.
Not cheated anywhere so far.
Didn't run out of RMB cash so far.
Didn't lose meimei so far.

CMLink roaming works as expected, without fast depletion so far. Mlphone roaming works as expected. 

Had some quality chats with grandpa.

Meimei is close to daddy.

-- fuxi: well down on the trip
Ate plenty of fruits ever day.
Some simple exercise almost everyday.
Coping with the loss of quiet time, not effectively, but better than passive acceptance.
-- new: bike shar`]BJ
I can't afford to rely on something unpredictable.

Plan 0: don't rely on bike sharing. Buy a cheap bike if needed. Own bike is easier to operate.

Yellow bike has good quantity.

Plan 1 (not really a base plan): rely on yellow bike, set up manual top-up from Any bank card. (WechatPay would be a good second top-up source.) Accept the various surprises. (Citibike and SgBike etc also come with surprises.) 

Invest time to learn the mobile GUI. These GUI features are common across China apps.

Try using yellow bike without auto-pay feature. Will system offer WechatPay as an option?
