-- git alias
based on https://opensource.com/article/20/11/git-aliases
replace my bash aliases with 
git shown
git diffn
git commmit
git config --global alias.alias 'config --get-regexp alias'

Put these commands in a bash script customizeGit.sh and check it in. First time you run it, it would update the global ~/.gitconfig. This is safer than ovewriting the entire config file!

Check it in, test it out in one machine (not office !) then roll out to other machines.
-- slow-cooking new blog/wiki^recoll
Active scratchpads can be implemented as a wiki, or a file in a recoll directory tree.

A wiki (including my blog) is first and foremost an info display system, so you can keep a page open forever, as one of 20 open browser tabs. If needed, you could start an hour-long edit session, but eventually, you must save and publish. Most of the time the document is in Published mode, not Edit mode.

A recoll is data storage. The Edit GUI and Display GUI are the same thing, not separate as on a web browser. Therefore, we don't display a recoll file forever because there is a real risk of unwanted edit when we don't know how to roll back.

A recoll has more flexible organization. A wiki tree is kinda similar, but my blog is not. My blog relies on categories and tags.

--new: fuxi entries in git-blogg
the "fuxi" entry in git blogg is a crucial feature. Before this invention, I had to decide how to handle such content. 
The content is not worthless to be deleted, but publishing it would require either too many low-value bposts, or too much legwork updating existing bposts. 
There's already too much content and insufficient consolidation.

Therefore, the growing "fuxi" content is a necessary evil, and something of an asset.

-- update too many(tag^category) https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=19805&action=edit
single-category doctrine?

Q: how many tags would be too many in a blog?
A 500?

why I can have up to 5 times more tags than categories?
Tags are not presented in a super-long list of checkboxes. Tags are selected by autocomplete

Overlapping tags is a bigger problem than a proliferation of distinct tags

-- fuxi: 
In some cases, post title, tag/category are more impotant than the (brief) post content

--fuxi wp super cache
too complex. Even if I turn it off for a year, and feel safe to turn in back on, I would still forget it is there. Forgetting means it would bite me.

i think caching is designed for large user base. I have a user base of 1.
