
--overweight consultation
I think Cigna look at the type of doctor.

We can see a pediatric specialist first. Then ask for in-depth tests. If test too expensive, then ask Cigna first.

It’s possible that some experts have seen similar cases and have insight.

If we see a dietitian, Cigna won’t accept.
--
with boy's Chinese, I put in so much effort over those 4.5 years but not effective.
Now with math I won't have so much energy to spare. This task competes directly with my day job for my mental energy.

am not putting in so many hours helping meimei with her Chinese, but I don't feel so guilty

when I put in the time to help him on his math, i have the deal with bitter disppointments and confront my past i.e. the renzi experience.

--
he had mistakes with 7-2 and 18-12, but perhaps focused practice may not be useful. He needs to learn how to apply

--how much time^money to spend on kids
I feel these two are not the most important factors, but between them, the 'time' factor is more important.
--
When other parents start talking about top schools, I need to either politely get away or change topic

--new
Bill Chen pointed out one of his friends is still in high school but makes good money on youtube.

Some pro-gamers can make money from streaming. I still think it is a difficult profession and addiction-prone. I think it's detrimental to health. To become good at it you have to spend hours playing games everyday.

Is it different from pro chess players? More respectable.

How about professional gamblers?
How about self-employed day-traders?

--new blogpost
my criticism on boy is mostly about effort and absorbency. 
but my own absorbency is also limited. So is wife's. 五十步笑百步。 I'm unable to do x leetcode problems a week!

I think my son is making serious effort. His math talent and absorbency (abilities) is limited. If that's the case we have no reason to blame him. We should accept him as he is.

Is Absorbency part of effort or abilities? Now I don't know. In my case, it's abilities. In my son, i tend to see it as effort... double standard
--new blogpost: top secondary schools may not be suitable or accessible to boy. 
1) boy doesn't look like the academic type 
2) boy lack the absorbency capacity

In the abilities/effort framework, I see gaps on both fronts... More on the effort side. Effort does affect abilities.
In middle schools I became 'engaged' at an earlier age than my peers and developed my competitive abilities.

--new blogpost: xxxq = interest for learning specific topics
Here I'm excluding physical skills, but "learning" doesn't equal classroom learning.

I would say whenever my son reads a book he is learning something, not always academic.

--new blogpost: non-academic kids
With non-academic kids, perhaps it's more important to find his strengths + xxxq, after we accept their academic limitations. 

Note 'academic limitations' doesn't always mean low technical talent. I think it's possible for a non-academic student to later excel in technical domains. As said else where, competitions take place repeatedly throughout our 'career'.

I feel my son is perhaps not academic or technical, but I need to keep in mind the possibility that he might be more technical than academic.
--
There are (implicit/explicit) competitions at various stages in your life, starting in primary school. Boy may improve his "ranking" in later competitions.

The earlier competitions tend to be academic and theoretical. The tech interviews are also fairly academic -- my strength.
--
I now see it as a priority to find a college like Berea, that offers numerous internships. Boy learns more effectively outside the classroom. He is not the abstract, theoretical and academic type.

--new blogpost:
Need to avoid comparing with other kids 
Need to avoid comparing with me on STEM subjects
 
--
luckily boy doesn't lie, drink, smoke or refuse to do homework
--new blogpost: high cost of micro-managing boy's study
Scenario: on flight, I just did some QQ or coding drill and can continue but i noticed boy had been watching TV for a few hours, so I told myself Let's take a break and help boy with some math practice.

There are multiple problems with this line of thinking.

* the hours on flight are really precious. After the flight, I often remember the productivity level for a long time. This long-term memory has a deeper impact on my self-image and self-assessment than weekend productivity. It has even higher impact than commute productivity. Self-assessment is crucial.

* the ROTI with boy is actually very very low. The real progress would come from within not from parents. There's a very deep-rooted and wrong cultural bias that parents ought to keep spending more and more hours with kids, and should never give up on the kids. It ignores the ROTI and opportunity cost of parent's time.

* on flight, boy is not in the mood to study. Again, I tend to brush it aside and feel the obligation to change his habit with determination and persistence. It becomes a confrontation and a struggle. Now I think this type insistent control is too costly as it drains a parent's emotional energy and time. We should NOT ignore this cost. 
--new blogpost
It's easy to feel love for a younger kid. Younger kids are visibly vulnerable and dependent on us the parents. Parents feel a protective instinct when we see our little kids.

It's harder to maintain the unconditional love and patience for an older kid.
--if I need a lot of time to spend with boy, then where would that time come from?
reduce blogging?
reduce outing?
take unpaid leaves? just annual leaves

Q: which past job would let me spend more time with boy? for a few months, not for years
OC is best
RTS boss was pushy, heartless and not considerate

Again, I feel it depends on coworker benchmark, localSys i.e. your brainpower vs brainpower baked into localSys. I may be missing some important factors
--email to xr:
A few months ago, you said that because of your son, you have to put in a lot of effort, a lot more than other parents. I now have a deeper understanding, after analyzig my son's math learning.

I now feel he did a lot of practice, but still very slow with basic calculations. 

I never imagined he would fall behind on math, but now I think he would be lucky to stay average in his class.
--email to grandparents:
大宝成绩比四年级进步/退步了吗？
班主任（也是科学/英语老师）不能确定。 

大宝在班里处于哪级别？
班主任（也是科学/英语老师）指出他所在的快班，同学比较聪明勤奋，竞争激烈。 他这两科处于中等 （之前我提出这两科他处于 中上 等）。 我相信老师对这班学生的了解。 四科通观， 可能是中下等。 班主任认为他的成绩有提高潜力。 我指出大宝不太在乎分数，远远比不上某些同学。 老师基本认同。

大宝英文 74， 差一分到 A。 
大宝科学 83， 远远高于 75 分， 所以是 A。 

--no blog: math practice focus
focus on the low hanging fruits
The hard problems just give up for now but he needs to feel confident he can solve if he commits himself. 
No need to master those problems.
--new blogpost: creating a natural consequence for boy
Discuss with wife the possibility to delay family relocation by 2 years to 2023 (boy age 15) if he doesn't improve his motivation, self-discipline

Hopefully he sees that U.S. system is more fun, more freedom for him but if he remains unmotivated he has to receive tougher discipline in Singapore system.
--new blogpost
any time a parent says "this punishment/penalty can only be reduced under special conditions like weather", the implicit, unspoken but obvious truth shines through -- a man-made consequence, not a natural consequence.

The point systems is an attempt to mimic the natural consequences of "outside" world but unfortunately parents, rather than a computer, must make decisions each time.

There are preciously few natural consequences visibly beyond parents' control 
* homework delay -> teacher scolding
* late to school -> teacher scolding

--no blogpost: I feel lucky to have a wise father. Can I be that father to my kids?
--new blogpost/email
--new blogpost
my discussion with math tutor was overly negative about my son. She has her concerns, but she didn't have the optimism and confidence based on grandpa's wisdom -- standardized benchmark has limitations.

strength -- piano absorbency
strength -- able to complete heavy homework
strength -- able to complete some of the homework from tuition

--new blogpost: devoting weekends to his math@@
some parents are effective math tutors; others realize it's counterproductive. I feel I tend to lose my cool.

I won't be spending all my weekends on his math or his Chinese. 
We told him many times that he can ask if he has questions. 

At this age learning energy should start to come from within, like a wellspring. 
Otherwise there's limited engagement, poor focus, poor traction, poor retention. 
Very low ROTI for me.

--June holiday daily routine
I will insist on at least one 30-sec daily routine completed by boy. 
* 60 sec tiptoe 
* 30 sec for 10 speed-calc within 20, at 100% accuracy
* 60 sec multiplication table in reverse
* 30 sec 3 division problems within multiplication table, at 100% accuracy

This is "unnatural consequence" parenting so he will not feel motivated.

--new blog: 大宝的学习兴趣几乎是最低的。
60%的同龄华裔同学， 对枯燥练习的接受程度比他高. 包括英文作文。

--new email: 打好基础
很多家长老师都强调小时候打好基础， 我比她们更重视， 但对大宝我感到有点无能为力。 

大宝的汉语拼音，加减法都不强， 

过了这些年，爸爸真的要接受。爸爸尽力了。 不是家长做的不够， 而是他自己的弱点，需要自己下功夫逐布改进。

大宝的英文拼写， 乘法口诀基础还不错。

--new blogpost: 
most of my huge effort to help boy was on the same area -- 上进， 不甘落后，克服困难，持之以恒重复练习， 不怕枯燥。

在这方面， 最有效的帮助是课外活动， 比如钢琴， 不必拿啥名次或证书， 就说他坚持到今天，没有终止，就是不可思议的进步，因为大宝的天性是非常的而不是一般的贪玩，

再比如游泳跑步，他都接受了。没有放弃。

这几项都是家长决定之后，提议坚持。 决定得对。 

除了这个方面， 我也曾帮大宝培养华文兴趣， 减肥， 没啥效果。 

--no blogpost
I spent more effort with boy's renzi than math. I think it's correct focus. 

--no blog:
Hougang trip with boy in 2012 (and similar trips) were poor bargains -- high tcost no pleasure no benefit, like wasting money on a distasteful and high-calorie meal
Later trips to stadium/pool/climbing were better

Now I know better how I want to spend my precious time with boy -- exercise, study, have real fun not necessarily spending money

--new blog: some extra math problems everyday
Some parents advocate giving a few math problems a day to a kid.

I feel some kids can embrace such repetitive practices -- Ma Liang, HuKun, Siddesh... 

In fact, my son is overloaded with homework

Forcing my son to do even a minute of any repetitive practice is against the "natural consequence" principle. 
The ensuing reward/punishment feels completely homemade and unnatural consequence. 
I believe my son will NOT embrace it.
Probably a serious blocker in the fundamental motivation/feedback loop.

How about piano and swimming? Repetive practice that requires absorbency. 
My son embraced the challenges with a moderate level of absorbency. 
I think he is not completely unwilling to take on repetitive practices. 
Fundamentally, his absorbency is lower than his peers.

Remember the green zone? His piano practice can go beyond the green zone. Grandma even suggested that he uses piano as a break from homework. He got the idea but i don't know if he can do it.

--new blogpost: benchmark: growing gap behind those academic kids
I think Lianzhong, Jingheng and many China families that tuition teachers describe are in a different category. 
Their parents are more pushing and the students more talented in terms of absorbency.
The repetitive drills set them apart from the "regular" students. 
The gap in standardized benchmarks is rather large like ... even the simplest problems for me was hard for my sister's classmates.

At college level, you still need repetitive practices but less important.
The regular kids may catch up.

--email to wife/grandparents:
我下半年回新工作后， 会逐渐减少大宝的繁重作业， 因为对孩子学习帮助不大。 

比如数学难题， 做很多还是掌握不了。 也许他的同学能掌握， 那可能是他们能承受反复练习， 大宝没他们的耐力， 或许不应归罪为孩子的错。 

我决心做有智慧和胆识的家长。 数学这科我学的最久， 有自己的体会，观点。 我的决策，基于我的亲身体会和我对大宝的观察， 应该比老师更有根据。 老师的优势， 在于对同年龄学生的了解

--new blog: PSLE is serious
需要改变大宝几年来的观念 , 好像不必在乎 PSLE, 反正到美国就轻松了.

事实上, 美国轻松的学校很多都不是好学校. 美国中学生也要竞争, 也有考试, 也有难题, 也需要坚持和努力, 不学无术的学生大都没有好出路, 只能被淘汰到社会底层.

我曾计划大宝来美, 家住北昂小镇, 能进所谓天才班, 但如果他现在不努力, 恐怕到时候进不去.

考虑正式参加 PSLE, 一家人共同经历这个磨难。 爷爷说也许是件好事， 好像军训. 学习生涯不都是轻松自在的. 压力,磨难有时免不了. 竞争, 是注定免不了的.

在美国, 要上好大学得从 15 岁开始竞争. 也是有压力的.
--
学习是任务, 不喜欢也得接受. 
作业是繁重, 但别的同学能做完, 我们也能.

我们总说大宝不努力。 我没有给他足够的夸奖， 爸爸做的不够。

可以考虑给他一些压力。 这个年岁可以承受一些压力 （包括数学作业）。 但避免厌学。 

我还是提倡温和地坚持。 学习和作业的目标就定为考分。 每天学习最少30分钟， 要他自己认同而不是家长强加的。

完不成学习任务的后果最好是自然的，要不就是他自选的， 而不是家长制造出的后果。 怎么把"后果"和奖励结合呢？

不甘下游
--update blog: rewards to try
no time to bring him out :(
healthy (possibly fancy) fruits
zero-calorie drinks

None of them is a natural-consequence reward. Natural consequence takes too long to be felt!
healthy fine dining. High tcost
a real, new computer? but he has no good use for it
bike journey but how do we transport the other bike to the venue?
