--new: US parent`culture!=weak
jolt: my view of U.S. vs Chinese parenting culture/practices
I tend to feel U.S. is weaker, ineffective and failing, but look at the output of these two cultures. Out of 10,000 white-collar families, the number of "successful" (beyond grades) adult children is not higher among the Chinese. In fact, as soon as we look beyond pre-U benchmarks, the picture would be very very different. 

--new: over-confidence to change ah-boy #Ashish
Ashish told me about an Indian Australian girl he dated remotely. She is overweight, but Ashish was extremely confident he could make her work out really hard and lose weight. Similarly, I was confident that I could control my kids' screen addiction, diet, exercise etc. In reality, self-will is the dominant force. Coaching is conditional on the motivation of the student.

Confidence is generally a good thing, but unrealistic, naive confidence is the seed of my deep pains. Confidence about how much influence you have over a family member is usually overconfidence. Overconfidence in parenting is common.

Many parenting cliches suggest that parents have the authority to influence (yes) and POWER (no) to control (no) their young children's behavior, habits. Well, the only things that control children are prisons and mental institutions. (In contrast, schools and hopistal wards do not have control.)

--new: CSY's BostonU kid
jolt: 
Shanyou's son had academic talents in high school but refused to study. He "only" managed to earn a half-scholarship to study comp science in Boston University.
Shanyou felt "what a waste -- he could get into ivy league". 
I'm feeling the same about my son. As I criticize CSY for his parenting attitude/perception, I have to admit that I am in the same trap -- 五十步笑百步.

This is one of the elements of reality I have to accept.

--new: am still fixated on benchmarks
fuxi jolt: why i say his math is weaker than his Eng, Sci etc?
Because his percentile in this class, but ...
.. but his low score is often due to attention to details
.. but wordy problems are hard for everyone
.. but his "higher" classmates might be using rote techniques, with poor clarity of thinking

Because I'm comparing his clarity of thinking to ME in wordy problems vs science etc !
.. but i should mostly compare him to his contemporary

--e-games: not all equal
Not all games are created equal, equally addictive, ,,
Boy won't prefer a parent who is ignorant of the different games.

I told grandpa that he has a bias against Hongkongers. I too have a bias against e-games.

--new: wordy problems: as academic as 作文
In terms of practical value
2-star: if he doesn't like Chinese compo and puts in no effort, I am not so worried.
3-star: But wordy problems are somewhat impractical, kinda contrived. Why do I worry so much?
4-star: If he doesn't like arithmetics and puts in no effort, I worry about his foundation skills.

However, I feel the biggest limitation is immaturity -- no inner drive to overcome the basic laziness that's inherent in every person.

jolt: I realized long ago that the Chinese composition requirement is unrealistic for many kids. 
Too much pressure. 

Now I feel the math wordy problems are highly contrived. Equation is the right method but not taught. Fuck the system!

Similarly, the science marking system (keyword-based) is contrived and stupid.

The SG quantity of practice is possibly too much at high school level, even for a China high school student in 1991.
Will the U.S. quantity be more effective more appropriate for my son?

Over 2 years, I gradually realized that my Singapore classmates mostly showed speed but shallow understanding in math and physics. 

I feel IF my son shows enough understanding, but insufficient speed, I should avoid applying the SG exam standard.

If in another country the quantity/speed is 50% lower, he may be doing just fine. Perhaps at P3 he was at that position.
So is he too slow at arithmetics? My assessment is, tragically, influenced by the SG exam system.
I want to say fuck the SG exam system. Fuck the contrived wordy problems.
If I spend some time analyzing quantity/speed (Not complexity) in U.S. P5 math exams (common standard?), I will get some idea what's "normal" in another system.

Now I may need the inner strength to withstand the pressure from the SG school system. The streaming, the "caste", the PSLE 3-digit scores, 

--update Chinese blogpost https://tanbintpy.wordpress.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=4121&action=edit

fuxi: jolt: not 90% of the Chinese parents tell me to be strict
I feel perhaps 40-60% of the Chinese parents practice that.

(I feel for their kids Strict probably works better than in my case.)

--new: LorongChuan swim trips: t-overspent
jolt
t-spend with boy's swim (esp. the Lor Chuan trips) was over-spent, but how about my other lasers like
QQ
MSFM
personal investment
camp-out

Are they more strategic? I doubt it

--new jolt: I would speak uplifting langauge if he is weak
If my kid is genuinly weak in wordy problems, and lacks self-confidence, I would create uplifting words to build up his confidence.

Right now, Am doing the opposite -- He is improving but am using harsh words to cut him in half. I do it due to his attitude/motivation. 

Sherleen, grandpa and wife (over many months) all pointed out that my words (I would add "perception") on dabao's math standard are too negative. I am at my worst when talking about pattern recognition in wordy problems. Grandma sometimes echos my negativity. I use these words well before I lose my cool.

Perhaps grandma's attitude/perception is not a role model, but a negative example of anger management.

However, It is unfair to put 100% of the blame on grandma. I'm (at least 90%) responsible for my own action.

Grandpa issued the gravest warning -- my words would decimate dabao's self-esteem, confidence.

Sherleen said "uplifting" after she noticed dabao's lack of self-esteem. Now I think that for some individuals, affirmative words are a key language of love. I should read the book (online) to understand this one languge of love.

--new: don't-care: inefficient study->no time to play
dabao is not bothered with the fact that he has close to no time for play because he spends all his time on homework and tuition
I feel he has little desire to get more free time. 

i feel the pain of heavy homework+tuition is not an unberable pain to him.

I feel he doesn't really know what he wants to do with his spare time or how to convert spare time to enjoyment, so he doesn't bother to create spare time.

Playtime is frequently ineffective as a motivator to him. An aimless boy?

--new jolt: my huge t-spend with boy in q3sg was not so stupid.
It was an experiment comparable to my msfm, my c++, my c#, my overseas investment...

Experiment are risky in terms of disappointments. 

His renzi was (is) strategic to me. I took a calculated risk. 
In hind sight, I had no better use of my spare time. I couldn't save my spare time in a freezer for later use.

Without these experiments, could we discover .

-- new: Jack Zhang on parenting
高压 discipline ..

Observe what the kid wants and fulfill his needs.

keep the communication open as they go through adolescence. 

Accept some variations in individual personalities.

Curiosity is a good thing in a kid.

..JackZ on my family migration
U.S. migration might be more risky for your kids then for you

Make sure you still have enough time for your kids when you are working here. Short commute (like 95G) would be huge.

Parent's time is a key factor in Raymond's success story.

JackZ: If you feel your son is likely to become a manager type, then perhaps the wordy problem skills (abstract logical skills) are not really relevant in the long run. Self-confidence is arguably more important.

Both Jack and grandpa foresee that my derogatory remarks could easily damage boy's confidence.  I use such harsh words to get his attention, but apparently the net effect is counterproductive. Jack suggested -- paste reminder on your computer, in your cockpit, on the mirror ... to remind yourself.

Given the lack of interest in wordy problems, U.S. culture would probably emphasize encouragement not forced practice.
