--%%renzi regime ^ Raymond's approach
infinite patience infinite time.  Accept low commitment accept short attention span accept give-up attitude (Mrs Goh's observation).

I think Sakamoto teacher is similar.

See my blogpost on renzi. In hindsight, I feel the hours (actually months) spent on his renzi was too high.

If you plant a cucumber and it doesn't grow well, would you blame the cucumber?


--new: no good title
Repeatedly I declared that I can accept the long term prospect of a mediocre boy, and I can accept if dabao remains weak on math exam-taking techniques

However, his wordy problem capabilities (including pattern recognition) is currently very weak.

This weakness (perceived or actual) is related to the long-term prospect and the "exam-taking" ... so could I accept it with REAL  peace?

--jolt: punishment can take the form of my math sheets, but for geometry etc calm mood is needed.

--word-problem coaching is one of the toughest face times. 
Confrontational, most (80%) of the time
confrontational face time is usually ineffective, because he drags his feet and refuses to put in effort... losing my cool

In contrast, face time based on my worksheet is slightly more effective face time.
baby-sitting is a passive face time

Q: why did grandma give up coaching him on wordy problem? Is it feet-dragging?

I advocated for a long time to stop tuitions!

I feel his motivation for wordy problems is too low. We could pay a tutor and I can (avoid) take time off from work but he might still waste time.

I feel what he needs is not academic help, but a ton of encouragement and some control 温和的坚持. Consider my yoga experience.

My dismal ROTI is a real pain and negative feedback.

--fuxi and jolt: do not insist that he completes "this wordy problem" before moving on to other homework

--sugg: more emphasis on my worksheets
less on wordy problems in homework? Perhaps aim to get one wordy problem correct? Getting more than one correct is time consuming and also costs too much absorbency
He has limited absorbency -- green zone

--Ms Goh said "for the tough wordy problem techniques, leave to school teachers", but I guess they also hit the same resistance

缺乏信心， 缺乏愿望
只想达到最低标准， 所以不求甚解， 懒得动脑子找规律
就算我把规律讲清楚了， 就算他听懂了这个规律，他也不想多学一丁点

--With the remainder fraction problems, is he really improving? 

My doubt persists as long as he refuses to apply his mind

--gr8idea: at most one problem per weekday night
and must start by 9pm

--digitize a pool of 10-> 20 common and EASY wordy problems at p2-p4 levels
Ensure he masters the common pattern-recog. I think the patterns are also relevant in the U.S. exams.

Tie big rewards () and small rewards() to his performance on MY questions.

My effort is really on collecting common exam questions.  I hate to do this but I think my son lacks the motivation to do it for himself.

--gr8idea: wordy problem homework: even one correct is achievement
I promised boy that he would NOT be scolded if he could get one wordy problem correct.

One-correct usually implies he did listen attentively.

--gr8idea: take-up-for-fun
My assumption -- he has lost the basic skills. Pushing him hard will be ineffective.

温和地坚持

On the other hand, he probably needs more perseverance. He has a tendency to give up and puts in fake effort

Note Take-up-for-fun involves (confrontational?) facetime and can create pain (frustration/regret/losing-cool) in me, despite the 'for-fun' slogan.

--My time-sacrifice for boy is too high.
Am only trying to make him study for a few minutes but am sacrificing hours of my time.

efficiency is esp. low with wordy problems. 

--new (jolt): crucial to compare his science to his math.
his science, English, math non-wordy problems ,,, is not "P2 level" as his math is.

--Ask boy "How do your classmates study?"

--jolt: right now I spend X hours a week on boy's math. If I now spend 0.2X hours looking at his results on the easy problems, I don't really help him but it would boost my perception of him as my son.

--boy is skilled at solving some wordy problems without equations
I too excelled at this game in my grade 6

This is a strength, a real strength.

The equation method is actually easier and he will learn it in due course.

--new: wordy problems are not that "important"
jolt

I think his math thinking is not bad, as shown in geometry.

there are many skills of higher practical value.

I think my son may show more interest in the less contrived, less theoretical subjects like science, or coding.

--new blogpost: jolt:
the wordy problems in Singapore math classes have a negative effect, if not an overall negative aspect in the Singapore education system.
It has a negative effect on my wife and me.
If we are in the U.S. the math training may be too simple but no such unnecessary anxiety.
I try to be rational about these wordy problems but I find myself trapped. 

Since c++US days, I have told myself to avoid this part of the exam. 

--jolt: apparently, only one student in his class is comfortable with the wordy problems.

Sounds like everyone else is afraid and anxious about wordy problems.

This says a lot about the quality and effectiveness of this education

--jolt
I decided in NY to come home and reduce boy's math workload -- saturation, eroding confidence/interest..
The "perseverance" slogan is directly against my plan.

My first-hand experience shows that he has forgotten many recent problems he solved.  We don't need more problems; we need re-practice.