--math-coaching is face time. 
confrontational face time is usually ineffective, because he drags his feet and refuses to put in effort... losing my cool
face time based on my worksheet is much more effective face time.
baby-sitting is a passive face time

Q: why did grandma give up coaching him on word problem? Is it feet-dragging?

try on my own for one more month (Jan already tried)? But I already hit serisous resistance, disapointment, bitter feelings

I advocated for a long time to stop tuitions!

I feel his motivation for word problems is too low. We could pay a tutor and I can take time off from work but he would probably waste time.

I feel what he needs is not academic help, but a ton of encouragement and some control 温和的坚持. Consider my yoga experience.

--Ms Goh said "for the tough word problem techniques, leave to school teachers", but I guess also hit the same resistance

缺乏信心， 缺乏愿望
只想达到最低标准， 所以不求甚解， 懒得动脑子找规律
就算我把规律讲清楚了， 就算他听懂了这个规律，他也不想多学一丁点

--With the remainder fraction problems, is he really improving? 

I doubt it if he refuses to apply his mind

--My time-sacrifice for boy is too high.
Am only trying to make him study for a few minutes but am sacrificing hours of my time.

efficiency is esp. low with word problems. 

--new (jolt): crucial to compare his science to his math.
his science, English, math non-word problems ,,, is not "P2 level" as his math is.

--Ask boy "How do your classmates study?"

--jolt: right now I spend X hours a week on boy's math. If I now spend 0.2X hours looking at his results on the easy problems, I don't really help him but it would boost my perception of him as my son.

--boy is skilled at solving word problems without equations
This is a strength, a real strength.

The equation method is actually easier and he will learn it in due course.

--new: word problems are not that "important"
jolt

I think his math thinking is not bad, as shown in geometry.

there are many skills of higher practical value.

I think my son may show more interest in the less contrived, less theoretical subjects like science, or coding.

--new blogpost: jolt:
the word problems in Singapore math classes have a negative effect, if not an overall negative aspect in the Singapore education system.
It has a negative effect on my wife and me.
If we are in the U.S. the math training may be too simple but no such unnecessary anxiety.
I try to be rational about these word problems but I find myself trapped. 

Since c++US days, I have told myself to avoid this part of the exam. 

--jolt: apparently, only one student in his class is comfortable with the word problems.

Sounds like everyone else is afraid and anxious about word problems.

This says a lot about the quality and effectiveness of this education

--jolt
I decided in NY to come home and reduce boy's math workload -- saturation, eroding confidence/interest..
The "perseverance" slogan is directly against my plan.

My first-hand experience shows that he has forgotten many recent problems he solved.  We don't need more problems; we need re-practice.