
--single biggest risk to boy is...  
perhaps drugs (sex, youth gangs) in U.S. but in such environments, the bigger risk to the family is my health and stable marriage.
As a parenting coach said, if a kid has mom + dad together, then any risk would be mitigated.

--why i say his math is weaker than his Eng, Sci etc?
Because his percentile in this class, but ...
.. but his low score is often due to attention to details
.. but wordy problems are hard for everyone
.. but his "higher" classmates might be using rote techniques, with poor clarity of thinking

Because I'm comparing his clarity of thinking to ME in wordy problems vs science etc !
.. but i should mostly compare him to his contemporary

--dabao is not bothered with the fact that he has close to no time for play because he spends all his time on homework and tuition
I feel he has little desire to get more free time. 

i feel the pain of heavy homework+tuition is not really a pain to him.

I feel he doesn't really know what he wants to do with his spare time or how to convert spare time to enjoyment, so he doesn't bother to create spare time.

Playtime is frequently ineffective as a motivator to him

--somehow, my face time pain is only with his word problems.
Losing my cool is only with his word problems
his feet-dragging, low confidence ,,, is only with word problems.

--jolt
primary school kids need emotional support? Same commentator can say that my son needs help on math or Chinese. 
But I realize that he has way too much more help than he needs. The only help he wants is someone to finish his homework so he could blindly copy without making any effort. Such help is unhelpful.

--boy's multiplication is slow by my standard, but is faster than his classmates in the 6.5 class.

Capture his pride as a motivation.

--jolt: when criticizing kids on piano effort, remember their current effort level is already substantial.
piano demands a commitment

--jolt:
I have heard the conventional and expert advice for years -- make school-age children more independent.
Now I think it may fail miserably for a few percent of the kids. My son could be one of them. 

Grandpa felt he is many years younger than other 11-year olds, in terms of academic motivation and self-discipline. Such motivation requires a form of long-term vision. Some young kids lack any long-term vision. They can't see beyond the next week.

Therefore, grandpa now advocates
* use outside tuitions
* parents to baby-sit him for his studies

The P6 increased workload demands significant effort ,,, usually from the pupil, but in this case, from parents (and tutor) since dabao can't find the /energy/ from within.

--jolt: dabao needs *support* from me, but sometimes what he receives is pressure instead.

--jolt: I fuss over dabao's 1) pattern recognition in word problems 2) silly time mgmt 3) overweight ,,, but there are far worse problems at his age.
Do you rather have a sick kid?

Do you rather have a liar kid or stealing kid?

Do you rather have a violent kid inclined to abuse a sibling or attack other kids?

--new jolt: I would speak uplifting langauge if he is weak
If my kid is genuinly weak in word problems, and lacks self-confidence, I would create uplifting words to build up his confidence.

Right now, Am doing the opposite -- He is improving but am using harsh words to cut him in half. I do it due to his attitude/motivation. 

Sherleen, grandpa and wife (over many months) all pointed out that my words (I would add "perception") on dabao's math standard are too negative. I am at my worst when talking about pattern recognition in word problems. Grandma sometimes echos my negativity. I use these words well before I lose my cool.

Perhaps grandma's attitude/perception is not a role model, but a negative example of anger management.

However, It is unfair to put 100% of the blame on grandma. I'm (at least 90%) responsible for my own action.

Grandpa issued the gravest warning -- my words would decimate dabao's self-esteem, confidence.

Sherleen said "uplifting" after she noticed dabao's lack of self-esteem. Now I think that for some individuals, affirmative words are a key language of love. I should read the book (online) to understand this one languge of love.


--jolt: Shanyou's son had academic talents in high school but refused to study. He "only" managed to earn a half-scholarship to study comp science in Boston University.
Shanyou felt "what a waste -- he could get into ivy league". 
I'm feeling the same about my son. As I criticize CSY for his parenting attitude/perception, I have to admit that I am in the same trap -- 五十步笑百步.

This is one of the elements of reality I have to accept.

--new: boy said don't come home ] afternoon
boy has a point: if i don't come home during lunch break, and instead spends my time in some forgettable way, then i won't feel so disappointed.

The fact that boy is not so competitive at A/B/C/D should not be used as a whip to beat myself up for my decisions to spend time coaching him.

Somehow am not celebrating every small improvement in boy. 

need to make him see that dad's bar is not too high.

--q: does he ever find the "checklist" useful against careless mistakes?
If not, he won't use it in exam.

Before his next math sheet, ask him "What common mistakes do you tend to make?" Ask him to write it on a sticker. Then after he finishes the sheet, ask him to check each question.

The process of conceiving the checklist and using it is conscious and active learning.

--new: renzi coaching effort: review
With renzi, for 2 years I had a steady and clear focus (not fixated on benchmark). Clearly better than other parents. 

Still, one crucial missing link -- xxxq. He didn't want to apply his mind.

Now in 2019, my son's renzi is much better than I feared. (By the way, he is also stronger than half of his classmates, but not my focus.) 
Yet, using result to judge my effort can be very unfair and discouraging. 
Result implies measurement against some yardstick, and it implies some expectation.
Perhaps my effort was good and helpful, but due to lack of xxxq, his progress was slower than expected.

--jolt:
t-spend with boy's swim (esp. the Lor Chuan trips) was over-spent, but how about my other lasers like
QQ
MSFM
licai
camp-out

Are they more strategic? I doubt it

--jolt
Why is XR (or anyone in his shoes) so fixated on the expert diagnosis? YH keeps testing his son's IQ? Subconsciously we take it as a court judgement.

In reality, a grade-A academic child can become mediocre in college or professionally, while a grade-C child can turn out rather decent.

--new jolt: my huge t-spend with boy in q3sg was not so stupid.
was an experiment comparable to my msfm, my c++, my c#, my overseas investment...

Experiment are risky in terms of disappointments. 

His renzi was (is) strategic to me. I took a calculated risk. 
In hind sight, I had no better use of my spare time. I couldn't save my spare time in a freezer for later use.

Without these experiments, could we discover .

--fuxi: jolt: for many of my peers, their parents set high bars and don't praise them.

For my son, i need to set my bar very low and praise him for every small improvement.

--fuxi: jolt: not 90% of the Chinese parents tell me to be strict

I feel perhaps 40-60% of the Chinese parents practice that. 
(I feel for their kids Strict probably works better than in my case.)

--fuxi: jolt: every time I say something negative about my son, I should precede and follow it with something positive. 

Not easy

--jolt: I realized long ago that the Chinese composition requirement is unrealistic for many kids. 
Too much pressure. 

Now I feel the math word problems are highly contrived. Equation is the right method but not taught. Fuck the system!

The SG quantity of practice is possibly too much at high school level, even for a China high school student in 1991.
Will the U.S. quantity be more effective more appropriate for my son?

Over 2 years, I realized that my Singapore classmates mostly showed speed but shallow understanding in math and physics. 

I feel IF my son shows enough understanding, but insufficient speed, I should avoid applying the SG exam standard.

If in another country the quantity/speed is 50% lower, he may be doing just fine. Perhaps at P3 he was at that position.
So is he too slow at arithmetics? My assessment is, tragically, influenced by the SG exam system.
I want to say fuck the SG exam system. Fuck the contrived word problems.
If I spend some time analyzing quantity/speed (Not complexity) in U.S. P5 math exams (common standard?), I will get some idea what's "normal" in another system.

Now I may need the inner strength to withstand the pressure from the SG school system. The streaming, the "caste", the PSLE 3-digit scores, 

--jolt: when i feel boy will fail his exams, I need to remember tutor's words -- he is much better than many slow, rebellious kids, so he will pass for sure, despite his weaknesses in arithmetic, apply-his-mind, carelessness etc.

I think many Singapore students are very very weak in basic math skills.

I criticized Shanyou for his "shame" about his son, but what about my feeling of inferiority about my son's math benchmark performance?

--jolt: if without the bmark crisis
I wouldn't see his arithmetic weakness created by years of neglect
I wouldn't say he is so lazy. Perhaps he is more motivated than many kids of another country.
I wouldn't see his poor clarity of thinking and pattern recognition
I wouldn't feel so negative about his tech career


--email to grandparents
我的同学有好几个拒绝学英语， 更多的同学讨厌政治，或历史， 或语文。 这些同学后来成绩也没有那么糟糕。 都及格了。 

这几科大都是中学科目。 12 岁以上。

得过且过，尽量少吃苦，这种学习态度，挺常见的。 but I feel these students still can overcome their laziness once a while.

也听说有的孩子拒绝完成作业。 

--jolt: double-standard
In terms of practical value
2-star: if he doesn't like Chinese compo and puts in no effort, I am not so worried.
3-star: But word problems are somewhat impractical, kinda contrived. Why do I worry so much?
4-star: If he doesn't like arithmetics and puts in no effort, I worry about his foundation skills.

However, I feel the biggest limitation is immaturity -- no inner drive to overcome the basic laziness that's inherent in every person.
--e-game
Not all games are created equal, equally addictive, ,,
Boy won't prefer a parent who is ignorant of the different games.
