--noblog:
sugg: give him the phone and ask him to control the screen time to 30m. As a training for self-regulation?

Must show respect, not a chance to squash him.

--new: if he reduces his gaming minutes to 30/day but increase his online chat time?

--new:
ask boy (and wife) what things dad can do with boy each week, partly to replace the screen time.
It could be a memorable routine.

I may have a bigger role to play in reducing his screen addiction

--new
lock away the iphone8 until we figure out a way to control its usage. Meanwhile, boy can play games on mom's phone. Mom can also motivate him better.

For school time, the phone will get a SIM card, but we will need to have control policy. By default, no phone.

--new: phone dependency: my criteria
I don't care about other people's definitin of addiction ...
I feel if he spends more than 2H/day looking at the phone screen, it's addiction.

--new:
Q: what evidence would convince me that my son is ready to carry a phone
A: when I see that he didn't care about it when it's given to him.

-- new: smartphone can be acceptable for boy #OPL
Pearleen Ong on 19 Oct suggested that smartphone is widely considered a semi-necessity, so it's probably not necessary to delay the handover

I said some S1 students do not have a smartphone. She said these students may feel left out, perhaps due to poverty.

.. at some age, boy may save up and buy a smartphone himself. This is more likely to happen if there's insufficient agreement among the 3 of us.
The open communications channel is priceless. I feel it's built on trust.

.. after 12 Nov don't say yes/no.
give him iPhone8, under mom supervision. agreement. execution
.. holiday
s1 literature subject textbook... story books
CDAC activities
.. 1 Jan let him carry the phone with tracker
try for 2 weeks

find some tracker apps.

-- Q to counseller: is it unreasonable to take away the phone for a few months?
30-45 min of gaming time a day for a year.. Before the exam, his mom promised to give him the iPhone8. So now if I seize it he may feel unfair now. When discussing fairness, he reminded me of another reason he feels unfair -- his friends all get to play on the smart phone longer hours than him. The average number of screen hours may be 2.2, but it is a very misleading statistic. Many parents may not realize the harm. Many kids may be more mature and have better self-discipline than my son has.

Handphone is not a nutrition. Perhaps most of his classmates will soon have a phone, but I bet some will NOT. Even if he is the only one without a phone, it's not the same as being the only student without a calculator.

Once a teenager carries a smartphone and mingles with friends, even without a SIM card he would be exposed to many online content and threats. I imagine some friends would shared a mobile hotspot.

Risk of violent backlash? I think he may erupt one day (triggered by some apparent injustice) and possibly hurl something at me or push me as he pushed his mom. I'm actually worried about this risk. He is already stronger than his mom and may become stronger than me.

If I give him the SIM card + phone to set up whatsapp, then he would feel entitled and in the future protest even more when we take it away. 

Smart phone is the opium among many Singapore youth at his age. Alternatively, some may describe it as a pandora's box.

