-- new: family counselling: realistic ROTI expectations
Improvement in boy's sleep? Unlikely
wife growing confidence in testing times?
Reduced fear in wife and in boy
Sustainable policy on screentime, accepted by boy
less anger in boy when we take away the phone
less /fallout/ affecting my work
Fewer Draconian actions on phone

I feel the conflict of screen time is affecting my work, my health [workout, diet etc] and esp. wife's mental health. These damages tend to get brushed aside but, in hindsight, dead serious.

One moment I'm calm, in-control and confident in dealing with various challenges at work, family, health or faimily finance. The next moment, I feel like losing control.

I once said the top 2 risks are his sleep and his grades. Now I think the bigger risk is bloodshed + impact on my job performance + wife's mental health. 

As a teenager, I witnessed family conflict leading to bloodshed.

I don't know how to put a stop to it.
I hope there is a simple and crude kill switch.

-- I feel boy is angry becuase he feels parent's decision is unfair and arbitrary.
Less frequently, he would object to school's policy or government policy.

-- fuxi: we may need to decouple screen time from sleep deprivation.
The correlation is not 100%. 

-- fuxi: need to repeat to boy:
Some people play games 3 hours a day but somehow score higher in exams.
Some people smoke, drink alcohol, but live longer than us who don't. Reality remains -- those things are harmful to their health.

-- new: criteria@chen2mi2
I tend to use (daily) gaming hours; wife tend to use total screen time.
The 2 criteria may or may not cause confusion, but it's better to clarify and be explicit.

My criteria is sometimes unfair as many "more academic" kids have longer gaming hours.
Wife's criteria is sometimes unfair as many people young and old have longer hours but in socially acceptable ways.

I told counseller CM.C that without restraint, boy may hit 10H/day screen time. (can ask boy to predict.) 
CM.C pointed out the pent-up demand -- Boy would spend excessive hours for a few initial days.

So our criteria are all questionable, imprecise and incomplete.

counsellor CM.C gave a few additional criteria
* escape from reality such as difficult subjects, exam fear/setbacks, demanding parents, bullying, broken family, 
* shut off from friends and family. cold shoulders to parents. 
* detriment to physical wellbeing
** sleep deprivation
** diet out of controll
* withdrawal symptom .. unable to cope without those "things". But what "things"? Relying on screens for .. blogging is not considered chen2mi2 !

==== new: counsellors@screen addiction
-- counseller CM.C pointed out that we (boy and family) are lucky that whenever one parent is upset, the other parent is _available_ to the kid.
My response: I cherish the open door, because in many families, there's a "closed" door between father and son.

--counsellor call about meimei phone addiction
family outing to reduce screen addiction. watching a movie at home together could be counted as family time, and perhaps much better than "phone screen time".
I tend to feel that the common advice and strategies won't help, but look at this case.

My discipline on meimei is looser than ah-boy, but it could be a good thing, as my strict confrontational stance /breeds/ anger... losing my cool
-- smartphone can be acceptable for boy #OPL
Pearleen Ong on 19 Oct 2021 suggested that smartphone is widely considered a semi-necessity, so it's probably not necessary to delay the handover

I said some S1 students do not have a smartphone. Her response: these students may feel left out, perhaps due to poverty. She didn't say they are unfortuate to be without phone.

at some age, boy may save up and buy a smartphone himself. This is more likely to happen if there's insufficient agreement among the 3 of us.
The open communications channel is priceless. I feel it's built on trust.
