-- questions for cardiologist
future CT results will need be interpreted with this FFR (Fractional flow reserve)? report.
how do I monitor the build-up over next 10y? Treadmill every year; CT every 5y?
No wound to heal except the wrist? but I have already applied leave, so I will go back to work next week.
blood pressure .. currently 120+ will worse with age? What can i do?
I am nearing pre-diabetes and borderline hypertension, which one is more dangerous for me (given that LDL is the biggest risk)?
Is my D1 big enough for stenting when needed?
when the wire passed through the narrow sites, was it rubbing off the plaque?
Lipitor 20mg or new drug?
bring LDL to under 80?
workout 
.. sprint unsafe?
.. stairs ?
.. 20km without pushing to the limit?

-- new: diff btw contrast CT n angiogram
https://modernheartandvascular.com/differences-between-cardiac-ct-scan-and-angiogram/
https://www.circlecvi.com/resources/cardiac-ct-scan-vs-angiogram-what-s-the-difference

For abnormal CT angiography findings, such as blockage or narrowing of one or more blood vessels, the patient may need a standard angiography as a follow-up. This is typical when doctors consider surgery to treat the narrowing or obstruction. 

FFR is even more reliable. See https://www.uptodate.com/contents/clinical-use-of-coronary-artery-pressure-flow-measurements 

CT has (better sensitivity, therefore good for rule-out) poorer specificity, therefore inferior for ruling in i.e. diagnosing a borderline case like me.

Low specificity means high probability of mis-fire (false positive). Such diagnostic tests need a follow-up test with better specificity.

-- Questions for dietician
avocado .. heart-healthy or too fatty?
sweet rockmelon .. too much sugar
vegetable oil.. less heart-healthy than olive oil or canola oil cooking spray?
beef is more (fatty) unhealthy than chicken?
peanut butter ... supposed to be better than peanut?
purple grape juice ... helps anti-clott? but too much sugar?

-- fuxi: discharge 
wound plaster .. 24H after discharge (not "after procedure").
24h helpline 6735 5000

-- fuxi: why I envy those JPM5600 runners?
I shared with Jason. Subconsciously, I am relying on my performance number to prove to myself (and others) that I'm able to defy aging, and my body's overall fitness is comparable to those 30+. 

CAD revelation is a stark indication of aging of my heart arteries. ( My heart and other organ are still young and bealthy. ) I find it hard to accept that aging has taken place so fast.

The JPM5600 will not be a usable proof going forward.

In terms of my body flexibility, EDyw, energy level, eyesight, speed coding,,, I have noticed aging signs for years. What's different this time round? Well, CAD has a host of lifelong implications. I'm grieving my losses more than EDyw or earlier.

-- update bpost on longevity https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=48298&action=edit
In Dec 2023 I started to worry about quality_of_life in my mom's twilight years, either in a Beijing nursing home, or a Singapore nursing home, or living with my wife (while I'm away in the U.S.), against the backdrop of her declining health.

quality_of_life is another side of VV (one of the trio).

All the scenarios appear pathetic, unappealing, scary,,, As people grow old, they are bound to experience (some or all of) mobility decline, mental decline, living away from immediate family, or outside their own comfortable home. Inevitable for many in their 80s and beyond. 

Given an elderly's health, financial and family situation, his choices are often limited. If money is not the problem (willing suspension of disbelief), then perhaps he can live with family + adequate healthcare at home [R.Teo's dad?]. Hopefully (big hope), the in-law caregivers are able to cope, supported by plenty of external resources. This "acceptable" bar is too high to be realistic.

Before I can plan ahead, I have to give up on unrealistic expectations.

How about my ADL insurance? I now feel somewhat more vindicated. 

The more children and grandchildren I have, the more resources I have available in my old age.

-- update bpost on grievings
For some people, smoke/alcohol are essential to quality of life. For me, Q@L includes intimacy, workout, fruits, cakes, ice cream, chocolates.

Losing these freedoms or cutting back on these joys really cut deep. However, I have progressively given up lots of cakes, fried starch,,,,

For GM, GP and Sherry, loss of mobility is a heavier grief, and heavier blow.
-- new: CAD implications
If I go to the U.S. I will need insurance. I will need frequent medical checks and consultations. WStC jobs will be less attractive given the expensive insurance.

A PSA/OC type of lower-stress dev job will become increasingly suitable for me. I maintain a decent effort with good attitude, and they will keep my job.

I will need to get my kids to take over my rental properties.

I will scale back on long-term risky investments, and allocate more towards stable assets just like retirees do.

Once a while I envy those in my cohort who are free of "my problems". For years, I used to feel superior, lucky, one of the God's favored children because I did good deeds and took care of my body for so long. Now I feel unlucky.

A classmate was suspected for some tumor (I won't elaborate) and decided to google life expectancy for such patients. I refuse to do so. My new longevity target will become ... 85?

For about 10 years I felt like immortal whenever I tell people that I plan to live till 95. Many long-term plans were made based on that optimism.

I tend to look at my running performance as a guage of my physical decline, but now I think denial of the natural decline can be harmful. No-decline is a good sign if it is natural and managed safely, not propped up artificially.

I hope to regain my sense of optimism and gratitude.

I hope to find something good in this challenging situation. I may not find any.

-- update bpost on Dr Leow
I have gastritis ... so some blood thinners are unsafe? 
AA: Even aspirin can be safe, if taken after (within 15m or with) meal

May need more effective cholesterol drug. 
How do I watch out for liver damage due to Lipitor? 
AA: blood test every 6M

Is my blood pressure likely to rise? 
AA: yes but only due to aging, not the procedure

will the procedure leave the smaller plagues (below 50% blockage) untreated? Will they build up? Improvement is impossible.
AA: Scenario 1: doesn't build up over many years
AA: Sceanrio 2: worsening.. further intervention

I requested for treadmill every 6M.

How safe is chin-up, or push-up, skip-rope etc? AA: Wait for 1M .. wrist wound
How safe is climbing stairs and squat? AA: yes after 2 weeks
How safe is slow run up a small hill? AA: safe
How safe is 100m continuous swim? AA: safe
Most people need 30min of aerobic exercise 5 times a week... How aobut me? AA: same for me

grapefruit juice can interfere with statin but grape juice is safe

nuts and peanut butter can be beneficial?
AA: eat in moderation. Better than fried or coated peanuts.

What causes do you see? 
AA: genetics + aging

For young men with family history, start checking cholesterol after 20.

Is atherectomy a safe option for me?
AA: higher risk. Good option when it's necessary (lesser of two evils) such as hardened plaque. 

one or more stents?
AA: perhaps one. Some narrow arteries will not be suitable for stent. Too bad they will not get stent.

Q: What if I miss 1 or 2 times a week?
AA: don't double up on the next day

Q: how do I know that work stress is actually affecting my heart health?
AA: chest tightness, short of breath while climbing even a short stair
Q: how about mild discomfort around the heart
AA: yes can be a sign

Q: competitive running/jogging .. fall at the end? Yes dangerous to the heart. Immediate medical attention required.
AA: Aim at endurance and don't sprint. Maintain pace. 
%%A: My younger-day habit of all-out sprint in the last lap is no longer safe at my age
