-- new: bike shar`]BJ
I can't afford to rely on something unpredictable.

Plan 0: don't rely on bike sharing. Buy a cheap bike if needed.

Yellow bike has good quantity.

Plan 1 (not really a base plan): rely on yellow bike, set up manual top-up from Any bank card. (WechatPay would be a good second top-up source.) Accept the various surprises. (Citibike and SgBike etc also come with surprises.) 

Invest time to learn the mobile GUI. These features are common across China apps.

Try using yellow bike without auto-pay feature. Will system offer WechatPay as an option?
-- new: learn alipay + WechatPay GUIs
For many things in China, you would need these essential accounts. 

I believe the mobile apps are the primary GUIs, so you need to invest time to learn them. 

I think Alipay is more foreigner friendly. There is a brower interface with minimal functionality.

-- new or update: quiet time
Similar to Korean trip
Somewhat similar 2020 covid period

I am losing my  5/wk, my diet control, my dental control, 

When I reach home, I now spend a few hours on "clean-up"

==== new: ##Chn bank accts
todo: ask ChnM how to keep the mobile number alive

Common cost: ADBFB
Common cost: cross-bank ATM.. LGlp
Common tcost: revive a dormant/de-activated account or ATM card
Common tcost: replace expired passport.. Need to bring old + new passports to a branch. If you don't update, then you will face difficulty when you bring an unrecognized passport to branches.

Given the costs, here are the justifications:
J4: e-payment 
J4: use ATM to avoid large physical amount

Common non-trivial operations: 
operation: check balance, cash-out
operation: deposit at ATM or transfer-in. [Transfer-out requires SMS OTP sent to a real-name phone number :( ]

Compared to Cambodia, Philippines, China banks are better .. easy2visit; 24H hotline; 

-- ICBC
Each bank card is linked to only one bank account. The account number is internal and invisible to users. Users only use the card number.

ADB rmb300: waived on first ATM card

To avoid "dormant", need some in/out every 6 months. Grandparents an withdraw then deposit some amount.

To re-activate atm card, visit branch with passport by 5pm

Transfer limit 200k/Y. Can remove if you upgrade at a branch.

-- HSBC
ADBFB? Stringent :( Global assessment. If FB, then need to downgrade Sgp account, but China account will incur FB fee of RMB 300/M. At that time, I may need to keep rmb 500k in China acct.

ATM fee? Bryan said waived for all premier customers.

sms OTP via roaming: 
-- starhub
Roaming subscription required unconditionally. $10 for each re-subscription. You can resubscribe via wifi, but need to exit flight mode.

SGD 0.15 / message, but ..
Q: Will I get a flood of recent messages when I activate roaming?

Two ways to receive SMS for a short while. In both cases, need to disable data roaming using builtin interface, not via starhub app.
1) remove the SIM card immediately
2) exit flight mode, receive the OTP, then re-enter flight mode.

-- ChM
Roaming is enabled by default. No extra charge :)
Incoming SMS via roaming is ... free of charge by ChM
