-- new: learn alipay + WechatPay GUIs, but not at this stressful juggling time
For many things in China, you would need these essential accounts. 

I believe the mobile apps are the primary GUIs, so you need to invest time to master the basics. 

I think Alipay is more foreigner friendly. There is a brower interface with minimal functionality.

==== new: ##Chn bank accts
Common cost: ChM monthly fees (rather low) + roaming fees
Common cost: ADBFB
Common cost: cross-bank ATM.. LGlp small amount
Common tcost: revive a dormant/de-activated account or ATM card
Common tcost: replace expired passport.. Need to bring old + new passports to a branch. If you don't update, then you will face difficulty when you bring an unrecognized passport to branches.

We need to Accept all the t$costs. here are the justifications for having these accounts.
J4: e-payment 
J4: use ATM to avoid large physical amount
J4: transfer thousands from grandparents.

Common non-trivial operations: 
operation: check balance, cash-out
operation: deposit at ATM or transfer-in. [Transfer-out requires SMS OTP sent to a real-name phone number :( ]
operation: update mobile num
operation: update password/PIN

Compared to Cambodia, Philippines, China banks are better .. easy2visit; 24H hotline; efficient

Need to transfer/log-in once a while and save the passwords.

-- ICBC
Each bank card is linked to only one bank account. The account number is "internal" and invisible to users. Users only need the card number.

To avoid "dormant", need some in/out every 6 months. Grandparents can withdraw then deposit some amount at ICBC atm. Or I can transfer in some amount. Transfer-out need sms-otp.
To re-activate atm card, visit branch with passport

To update mobile num, visit branch with passport, bank card and new phone.

banking site .. complicated due to kong4jian4. Mobile app is easier to use and feaure-wise "superset". I was able to check balance and transfer out. 

Logon using phoneNum/se8. Transfer-out PIN can be similar to ATM PIN.

How much balance to keep? If not in China, then keep it low like below rmb 1k. If in China, then can keep rmb 5000. Very low balance is risky because grandma may not be available to transfer out (mobile app)

Need to give my icbc card# to both grandma/grandpa for reference.

Transfer-out .. doable on ATM or mobile. Becomes important when I have too much balance.

-- HSBC
ADBFB? Global assessment need to downgrade Sgp account, but China account will incur FB fee of RMB 300/M. Better close it.

Phone banking auth.. can use 1) phone banking PIN 2) ATM PIN 3) SMS OTP

foreign ccy deposit/withdraw FOC but withdrawal needs advanced notice.

.... e-banking
HSBC Chn website can use 1) username/password (Txxx2) or 2) username/QR but (mobilePIN needed). Using password on a new browser needs SMS OTP.

Mobile needs mobilePIN (17xxx), sometimes password, seldom needs SMS OTP.

To reset mobilePIN, use ForgotMyPin. Need password + SMS OTP... Not easy, so beter don't change too often.

PhoneNum .. not needed during logon

Online fund transfer from HSBC -> ICBC is FOC if under RMB 1000k