-- new: VivoY02:
t_soulsearch

My VivoY02 was the cheapest smartphone on the market at the time, even cheaper than my 2019 purchase :) beating historical inflation, thanks to Chinese tech progress.

In Beijing, I progressively became one of the millions of Chinese who depend on their phones for everything... They need speed, full-feature,,, I think the Beijing trip served as a quick but real test for the product. I noticed some minor limitations, but speed is not one of them.

A "higher" phone may not help. More storage may not help. 
A "higher" phone increases my worry about loss.

-- update bpost on VPN
Need to accept the reality of China firewall.. Don't be bitter or resentful. China government is not completely without justification. Focus on solutions. 

Note some workhorse sites [dreamhost, github,,] are accessible by wifi but not ChnM hotspot. Don't rely on blog for important info.

Solution: pay a bit for a reliable VPN 
Solution: use git-blog .. git-push once a day via roaming-hotspotS or hotel wifi or home wifi

Tip: when hotel wifi is stable, do more git blogging.

-- new: ChnM billing++
话费 .. your account balance. Usable to pay monthly package, outging minutes or GB [i.e. mobile data]

Each month, rmb 18 is deducted from acct balance, without pro-ration. Around 2 July, the Y18 deduction may fail.

This specific package [套餐] has no bundled GB or bundled minutes, so these costs are known as 套餐外xxx

PAYU [pay-as-you-use] .. rmb 3 is "auto-deducted" (from your account balance) to buy 1GB as needed. Similarly, rmb 0.19 is deducted to buy each minute of outgooing air time.

Next trip to China, how to reduce voice call cost?
A bigger package may not help.
The rmb8 package shows current running cost :)

Itemized bill .. available in the app or at end of month in final bill.

github.com was, as of 7 Jun, accessible from hotel but blocked by ChM, according to ChM hotline. On 19 Jun, I was able to git push via ChM hotspot, so the firewall is kinda dynamic.

~~For my rmb18 package [套餐]
19c/min call-out. call-in is FOC
10c/SMS out. SMS-in is FOC

mobile data is complicated. Basically up to rmb3 for each GB. 
-- new: ##which China apps can "register" a mobileNumB while on SimCardA
Meituan.. tested
Alipay.. tested
ICBC .. tested
HSBC-China .. tested
Wechat .. I was using 97263200 

Let's register 159xxx55214 in Meituan, Wechat
-- new: bike shar`]BJ
I can't afford to rely on something unpredictable. If reliable, then the avaibility/convenience is excellent in many situations .. short trips in normal weather condition, or after midnight. In contrast, public transit is more essential.

Plan 0: don't rely on bike sharing. Buy a cheap bike if needed. Own bike is easier to operate.
Plan 1 (not really a base plan): rely on yellow bike, set up manual top-up from Any bank card. (wcpay would be a good second top-up source.) Accept the various surprises. (Citibike and SgBike etc also come with surprises.) 

No perfectionist please. Perhaps half the locals also have problems with one of the three operators. My basic goal is "can use any one". My good-eough goal is "can-use multiple".

~~ green.. Didi cab/bike
mainPage > 打车 > blue shield > 安全工具 > smrz ... shows smrz completed but not bank card binding
Tested: scan via wechat mini-app, but tedious
Tested: one-tap scan, ending with Alipay auto-deduction, although ppd not funded
.. Alipay (not wcpay) gives new users benefit of the doubt

~~ blue.. Hello bike/cab
smrz not sue.. smrz initialized via Alipay, but not showing as verified.
Tested: one-tap scan

Blue is the most complete set-up in terms of payment control.
* ppd funding by Aliay or wcpay
* When insufficient, Alipay auto-deduction actually kicked in ... mysteriously [Alipay or Bank card binding are nowhere]

~~ yellow .. meituan
smrz under grandma, binding her bank card
ppd funded by bank card
Tested: one-tap scan

-- new: Canon Pixma printer cartridge replace
:) no computer required, but stay powered

open the front cover. See youtube.
cartridge would automatically move to the middle for your access.

-- new: too many items: create folders
Usage sites: smartphone/PC desktop icons; browser bookmarks; recoll

The folder is usually opaque (except smartphone). I often fail to recall which folder hosts a particula item. 

Sugg: folder name had better be suggestive.

Sugg: try symlinks/shortcuts. Two copies of the same shortcut can go into two folders.

-- fuxi:
according to Starhub, a new router can last 1-2 Y before degredation. That's why they give a new router every 2Y

Shall we ask starhub?

--new starhub-TV: unwanted purchase content
New remote doesn't have a button to do the purchase. It's all on-screen.

The only way to prevent accidental purchase is parental control. 4-digit password.
