
== new Everything that matters is a competition@@
t_jolt
In my mid-20s my dad noticed that I saw everything as competition.

Q: For each item below, is the endeavor/struggle/// personal or is it fundamentally competitive? Specifically, is it realistic to define success without benchmarking with competitors? 

-- For wellness .. I would say non_competitive. Mostly a personal endeavor.
-- burn rate and cashflow mgmt .. I would say non_competitive. 
Some people spend $20k/M but they are doing fine due to high income.
I spend $3k/M and feel good, but how do I compare those supersavers who spend $700/M? I think both can be doing fine.
-- For personal investments ... non_competitive. 
Even if my portfolio is lower return, higher risk, it is fine. If the risk is too high, then it becomes a problem but not really due to peer comparison.

In contrast, if you run a fund then you must compete for mindshare.
-- for family livelihood .. fundamentally non_competitive. For most people salary doesn't depend on competition.
jolt: I'm in the minority to perceive salary as fundamentally determined by competitive job interviews. 
-- hobbies .. non-competitive by definition, including so-called competitive hobbies. The hobby is a success because it helps the individual grow, express the self, reach out to a community, regardless of competitive position achieved.
-- parenting .. fundamentally non_competitive. 
However (jolt), exam-oriented parenting can be competitive to some extent like "want to make my kids perform better than those families". 

Some parents even set a target to send their kids to some top school. In such a case, success depends on benchmarking.

I feel I have grown wiser, stronger, mellowing up. I now care less about exams and top schools.
-- family harmony, unity .. non_competitive
-- job interview .. competitive at least in the high-end tech interviews, because these are elite teams. 

QH.Dong said something like "GTD criteria is too low. Probably 80% of candidates can clear that bar. We need to find someone stronger than existing team members in at least one area, to complement the our mix."

The more senior, the more you hear "seeking the strongest candidate that our budget can attract."

If you only target a salary below the national median, then recruiter probably has a hard time filling the vacancies with qualified people .. non_competitive

-- dating: fundamentally competitive. You could be a fine person, but (more often than the other way!) in the dating market you may appear less attractive, less humorous, less resource-rich, less "suitable" as a life partner. Mate selection is fundamentally "picking the best mate that I could grab".

jolt: I have carefully omitted personality match -- the notion that what I want (in a mate) differs from what my volleyball teammate wants. Well, I choose to focus on the fundamental and universal desires. At the fundamental level, we both desire the same type of mate. Therefore, competitive.

Some people say they simply want to find someone "barely good enough" i.e. without major personality mismatches. I think this attitude is more common in arranged marriages, because the arranger can't give you 200 choices.

After the initial dating, how about the effort to maintain the love relationship? non_competitive

-- important exams .. fundamentally competitive, as the top schools target cream of the crop. Some students are not competitive. Some study like serious hobbies.

In UChicago, many examiners use bell-curve. In NUS, First-Class honors is bell-curve based.

However, if result is either P or F, without a grade (like driving tests), then exams are non_competitive. You are up against the examiner's standard, not other peer benchmark. 
The minimum requirement to pass is non_competitive. We often see the entire batch complete a program.

-- academic research and publishing .. non_competitive. However, there's a minimum standard in this _profession_. In some influential journals or conferences, you would need to produce outstanding findings to be accepted. Consider contributors to the Christian magazine [[parenting teens]]. Clearly a serious hobby. Yet to be accepted, your content has to be non-trivial, professionally-written. 

In contrast, teaching profession is non_competitive.

If you publish only on a blog, or you self-finance a print publication, then it's like a serious hobby.

=====

-- update stealth overtake
Are there some areas where some peers overtook me quietly?

personal investments in US stocks or property (A.Lin)
brank? Not my game.

I feel none of these examples are worthwhile. Nothing to learn. 

More diversified investment portfolio
more healthy lifestyle.
more healthy sleep timing
more patience with parenting

-- update blog on video learning stressful
For years I had a deep concern over juvenile drug culture in the U.S. 
The numerous online resources [pictorials, videos, FAQ..] were long available to me but don't give me any psychological relief. A paradox. 
Now I guess that subconsciously, I always know I ought to commit myself and "study" this subject, but the prospect of online learning was unappealing/unpleasant, heavy, even dreadful.

Then came a mini blackswan event, when the national library BigBookGiveaway gave away several beautiful pictorial books on some highly relevant topics. 
Those topics were exactly what I was unconsciously looking for. 
A less obviously but a real differentiator is the print media -- so much "better" than online. 
I kinda look forward to reading these books in my spare time. 
I could pencil mark, annotate and review them. For the first time, I felt relieved to have some promising resources to address a small part of my concern.

Ironically, they are published in the U.S. for the U.S. youth readership.

-- update post on magazine reading vacation
Magazines offer one of the most compelling alternatives to movies. Even more appealing than magazines is library trip, but often logistically difficult.

Any reading vacation can hit distraction. You set aside half a day with an goal of recreational learning. You browse through a few magazines but soon get distracted by attention-grabbing news with pictures. Most of the news offer low "learning" value.

At the end of the reading vacation, you have wasted half the earmarked hours. WeChatRead title (XH.Fu recommendation) used this opening scene.

This phenomenon is more severe online, and  rare with books.

.. video learning -- I watched some popular talks by leading intellectuals. 
No review, 
no browsing fwd and esp. backward
no pencil-highlighting or note-taking on the margin
no comparing two sentences across pages.

The courseware can't show permanent lists, tables or graphs. 

You can't focus on one difficult, confusing, or surprise phrase and let it sink in, unless you pause the video.

I think reading is far more efficient and less tiring.

.. novelty
Novelty (or expectation thereof) is an important apetizer esp. for a reading vacation.

eg: after I buy a tech book, I often leave it unopened, or hide its title from view, in order to "preserve the fresh attraction", for months. After a while, I preview the TOC and pencil-mark specific items, but refrain from reading them. This practice has mixed effect but usually (51% chance) reduces the novelty level. I think the reduction is inevitable. What we can hope is a slow reduction, rather than wipe-out of novelty level during a first browse.

eg: for a book or even a mag, the novelty can be wiped out after I read some 50% or just 10%.  Readers intuitively feel the same author ("editor" for a mag) has the same style in the unread sections. Those sections are therefore see as "likely similar" to the visited sections.

A wipe-out is significant because the entire book (or a copy of a mag) would get shelved indefinitely, even though it might have some hidden gems.

Magazines (and newspapers) have better novelty value, due to a much wider variety of content within a single edition. In this regard, best magazines include 读者, Forbes, ReadersDigest. Themed magazines offer slightly lower novelty such as tech, health or parenting mag.

Luckily, 20Y old magazines mostly retain novelty, if the topics are slow-changing. Obviously, we need to ignore the news portions therein.

-- update post on recreational reading
more parenting more health
more finance
less new tech
more c/c++ than java

-- fuxi
blackswan doesn't mean "rare event". Most rare events are not blackswans.

-- update: best example of involtion: coding drill for CIV
Can you lay flat? No I take it as a mental exercise.

Another example: HFT arms race. zero-sum game.

-- WFH: biggest distraction is wife scolding boy. It tends to touch my hot buttons
* chenmi
* academic motivation

See my blogpost on long battles

-- update 2020 circuit braker WFH:
home-based school. Worse than school holiday, which is worse than regular school term.
no private space at home
tough project - RJO
Can't escape to library

--new: waste of water/energy/$ in the family
I always feel guilty about wasting water, energy or (more frequently) hard-earned money.

I still waste some, every now and then, but I don't give up and accept my wasteful acts. 99% of the people around me (mostly Chinse) don't care as much as I do. I often feel most folks simply don't care about "small" wastes. 

My family members seem to do the same. That's the reality I need to accept.

I still want to improve my own habits + my family members' habits in this regard, but I always overestimate my ability to change them. I'm stubborn in my refusal to accept that "reality". 

This is possibly at the root of endless commmunication failures. The cost is rather high in terms of harmony, family bond, and happy marriage.

-- new
ML.Jiang once told me about some classmates. A Chinese national and a Korean national living in Singapore as a couple, who spoke Japanese at home.

I was impressed.

Immediately I assumed that they speak mostly Japanese between them and their Japanese fluency is equal to their mother tongue.

Well, DaShan the Canadian in China is one in probably 1000 foreigners who speak such fluent Chinese. So to a Japanese national, both of them probably sound non-Japanese.

The less you know someone, the more you assume... Remember HY.Cai

-- siberia .. sibeeria
-- common law meaning..
-- new untitled
Paramjeet Kaur was charged for her defiance towards mask-wearing regulation during circuit breaker. 

Appearing in court, she only wore mask below her nose. 

If I were the judge, I might mobilize the police force in the court to enforce the regulation. I might interpret it as contempt of court.

Well, the defendant may have a reason for passive disobdience.

How about my treatment of my son's passive disobedience?

-- fuxi: Citrix: switch between 1^2fullScreen modes
When cursor is in either screen, try 3-finger touchpad swipe-up. You can then choose a window to show on-top in that screen. The selected window could belong to the remote or home computer

On an unrelated note, you can also try 3-finger swipe-down.. will immediately minimize all windows and reveal home computer’s desktop. At this juncture a swipe-up would restore everything.
-- fuxi: when I describe my intimacy frustration, I mentioned my daughter's sleep habit and my son's habit to sleep in the living room. In my description, you could tell I'm more forgiving more tolerant of my 2 kids. In contrast, I'm more critical of wife.

I expect a lot more of her. 

-- update powerless guilt https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=26340&action=edit
boy's motivation
brank, OC-effectiveness

Focus on the room4improvement is painful. We need more realistic targets like I had with daily yoga.

In contrast, walk, jog, cycle, basketball ... require speed to be effective workout

-- new:
Among the U.S. immigrants, probably 90% come from less wealth (mostly developing) countries. Probably below 1% come from wealthier (always small) nations like Switzerland, Luxembourg, and Singapore

--update blogpost ... steadfast focus
part of my current comfortable ezlife is plenty of spare time for blogging. Satisfying, rewarding, but at the cost of tech xx pace.

-- fuxi: somehow I don't mind boy spending 5H/day on computers.
He already spends too much on phones.
phones are more addictive than computers.
phones need data 
phone screen too small

-- new: play`down my superiority
(a good title is hard)
for decades, I tend to practice a slightly excessive form of modesty, /bordering on/ self-degradation. 
Opening example: I have worked my ass off to improve diet and BMI, but when I meet a OC-effective guy, or a humerous/witty guy, I often ignore my BMI advantage and regard him as superior.

If I can recall and name 50 "superiors" [], 95% of them would have some serious inferiority such that I would hesitate to trade places with him.

inferior: Many of them (or their kids) grew up in an incomplete (if not broken) family. Many of them lost a parent fairly early.
inferior: More than half of them are overweight.
inferior: Many of them have more health issues than I have.
inferior: Many of them have non-trivial but hidden issues in mental well-being, including sleep, relationships, stress, aggression
Most of those occupying higher positions have work stress and career risks far more than I have as a contractor.
inferior: Most of those high-flyers don't have my career longevity. This is another "battery" I have built over decades but I tend to dismiss, esp. when I meet some high-flyer who is without this longevity but... superior ?! 
inferior: Most of them have long-term financial concerns like medical + inflation, retirement income.
Some of them have no kids. 

-- new: bmark aspiration is similar to..
category: anxiety
boy's bmark: this aspiration is somewhat similar to brank, OC-effective, exclub, SDXQ/Orchard mansion, net asset

-- fuxi: median is better than mean in the presence of very large outliers.

-- fuxi: 
For kids and also adults, when we act aggressively, we need to bear in mind the different aggressive actions.

Worst category is physical (and verbal) aggression, including a small push. In Chinese schools, teachers often ask "who was the first kid to hit the other side?"

Similar to physical aggression, if a kid is angry against someone, the kid can refuse to help that someone. Depending on the context, a helping hand is often considered basic courtesy, so a refusal to help is clearly personal and a passive aggression.

Smashing and angry yelling are not in that category. These are displays of indignation, protest. These can also cross a line in the sand and become aggression, but we usually can see the transition. I feel most of the time, smashing and yelling are not aggressive.  I'm not condoing these actions, but it's important to notice the level of damage -- Smashing something expensive is still less damaging than a push or various forms of verbal aggressions.

