-- new: respect not tied2peer-benchmarking
Nothing much new, but a useful revision.

I told a Cigna counsellor, what's really important to my job satisfaction is respect, but the elephant in the room ... is benchmarking.

GS is the most direct experience. Respect from manager, peers, users and even self-respect is mostly based on benchmarking within your own team, and within the bigger department.
My ErrorMemos user in Texas gave me exceed, perhaps based on his past experience with other developers. Yet my manager found me nothing spectacular.

Users and External peers and users may not know what the other team members are able to achieve *if put in my shoes* so no benchmark per se. Yet these evaluators have an expectation and based on it, a level of respect to you

.. Among performing artists (and visual, literal artists), some artists are loved by their audience, but Question: what about the ranking? 
My answer: the ranking doesn't matter to their audience. If I'm an audience of a particular writer, composer, singer ... then I see unique value in her, regardless of the ranking chart.

.. students in general
My kids don't need to be outstanding to learn useful things and have a meaningful experience in school
Excellence is measured on personal growth. This is within the student's circle of control.

.. researchers like my dad

.. my piano practice and yoga .. is a different form of "respect". I exceed my limitations and my inertia and I derive various benefits, all without benchmarking.

-- no blog: in the zoom seminar on receiving feedback, the 5 active participants are all the same types
* eloquent
** my English might be slightly better
* shrewd
* somewhat ambitious moving up to a more senior or more lucrative position in the same team.
** am OK with no bonus no raise, and AVP job title iff secure

They speak a shrewd, politically correct yet insightful language. In contrast, I speak my plain, long-winded, foolhardy language, sometimes without thinking too much. Remember my exchange with LSAgain? In the end, I have survived on my tech IV skills. Some of these guys move up, gain OC-effectiveness, but who cares about those things?

--update on placement new
I think placement new has two distinct usages
1) for data types with a ctor, it lets you construct those objects (or arrays thereof) at a given heap location without malloc

2) for primitive types like int, it informs the compiler to treat the raw memory as "int", without malloc.

2b) If you call placmeent new with an initializer then it also performs initialization at a heap location without malloc

--new or fuxi? outlier salary can appear commonplace
eg: my reply to XR on 250k fresher salary
eg: IC designer salary in China, according to Zhang Jiong
eg: FB salary in SG, according to Ajay and other Singapore trading devs
eg: SGD 240k total comp offered by Jump. Well, the base could be SGD 160k

-- new: technology churn on WallSt^internet
my perception of churn has been fundamentally shaped by two phases in my professional experiences -- pre-2007 internet career in SG and post-2007 WallSt career in US/SG.

The technologies in the internet space has faster churn. 

A big chunk of WallSt infrastructure is browser-based, intranet or internet. They experience similiar level of churn. Jxee is affected. Remember PWM servlet-based framework?

Another chunk of WallSt infrastructure is low churn, including coreJava, c++, SQL, MOM, FIX, sockets, batch jobs

By the way, Linux is dominant on WallSt and in the broader internet ecosystem.

UI technology is usually high-churn. Increasingly browser-based.

-- new: refresh: localSys^QQ^blog
limited memory capacity, unable to hold everything in L1 cache. Some content must fetch from disk.

* top 200 of the nontech blogposts -- refresh is time-consuming
* QQ, CIV pearls -- need to focus on the evergreen, xref and thick->thin
** learn new pearls? LGlp unless it gets linked in via xref. 
* localSys -- I never really allocate enough time on refresh. Maybe I should.

--fuxi: common reasons against moving to U.S. in their mid-30s
These deep, real reasons help me understand my position, my SWOT

..they need to rebuild a career, because U.S. doesn't recognize Singapore experience.
In a way, my move to web2.0 would be similiar.

..The promised good jobs in U.S. may not be available to them.
Competitive interviews.

..uncertainty and risk, vs stable, secure current job in SG
..racial discrimination
..immigration complications

--fuxi
remote coding test is unauthenticated and never more than a screening test, not a ranking test to rank candidates.

Ranking always requires face-to-face interview.

-- fuxi?
For 3 jobs I postponed my start date

* Qz -- to maximize the most relaxing phase of any job
* Macq -- to extend the job hunt (on bench) after securing an offer. I was already in good shape for c++ interviews in SG.
* MLP -- Similar to Macq case, but not on bench. Before I secured the MLP offer, I had created a valuable momentum and peak absorbency for coding drill.

--new: untitled
This write-up is too vague at this stage.

Writing work emails, I often feel unsure of the nuances and potential reactions (ever so subtle) in the recipients. Work email etiquette is too numerous, too nuanced for me.

Actully this 'unsure' feeling might be a sign of my sensitivity and maturity.

Some of my so-called peers are much more confident about these nuances. They write quick, informal, barely acceptable English sentences, sometimes too short sometimes too lengthy. But they are confident there's nothing offending. They are often managers. I often feel inferior to them.

Actually written communication is still my relative strength compared to spoken communication. My weakness is more severe in spoken communications since I have very little time to react, to process the message I send across.

Sometims everyone has very little time to react, but most people are more natural more confident than I am.

--update blogpost on java=outlier
These are tech fads in my experience, but can someone live on this tech till retirement, like the technical writers?
C#, WPF
perl
stored proc
mysql
php
apache, DNS
LotusNotes apps for Raymond

Was I lucky? I was lucky only with coreJava !
I had my share of unluckiness.

I feel by 2030 java bigData will go out of fashion just like java Generics, Hibernate, functional java, streams API, .

--fuxi:
GTD_selfXX -- when is a good time? When do I have the absorbency?
chipaway when in the mood

--new: critical mass on socket IV
I have a bit of critical mass on socket IV.

Those writing networking/socket programs outside C are on the peripheral/sideline. Those programming languages depend on the C API. C++ class/template libraries are in a similar situation. All of them are too high-level.

Therefore, I believe my past socket QQ interview questions are alien to those high-level candidates.

--new: untitled
for many peers (LS, Sunil, CNA...), the main goal is higher income but for me dev-till-70 is more valuable.

Contract job market is better for me not THEM.

Core java is one of the best tech domains. I can stick to java (keeping c++ critical mass). THEY may need to accept some corporate technology stack like cloud or Qz or data analytics.

Tech IV skills (coding drill and QQ) are absolutely essential to me not THEM.
They only need to pass IV once a while, and try to stay in one job for years. 
If tech IV and competing with youngsters is a painful process for them, then they would not keep practicing.

-- fuxi: back to home town like a king
LS once shared his view that at the same salary (say, 200k) in the U.S. he would be somewhat affluent, but in China he would be super rich in comparison with his /fellow countrymen/. I guess this is a fundamental (therefore powerful) motivator for some people in my circle.

As a less extreme but more widespread case, the covid19 economic fallout puts some tech workers in an enviable position relative to their fellow countrymen.

Q: is it intrinsic or extrinsic motivation? Not sureQ: how is FOMO related? I think in U.S. he would feel the FOMO fear but in China he would be the target of envy.

Why I bother with this question? Because this is a subtle factor in my choice of the country for my family

.. BGC and Cambodia experiences:
For a few days I did live like such a king, but the feeling was not really satisfying.

.. brbr: To me, when comparing U.S. vs "lower" countries, BRBR is more important than this factor.

--new winUpdate^codingDrill
The windowsUpdate problem is AA) recurring BB) without simple and reliable solution CC) irritating to ME 

The only solution I found so far is landGrab. I felt silly to spend hours setting up the tools to support landGrab. zsms! The zsms is annoying to say the least.

I feel CSY's view on coding practice is similar in that he probably feels silly to spend months on it, but he just couldn't find any better solution to this huge and immediate problem. 

In contrast, Deepak has a positive attitude. Some may say that over 3 years, Deepak won't improve to get ahead of CSY, but who are we to judge. Life is full of surprises. Deepak will improve as long as he keeps up the practice, and someday he will get lucky. 

In theory, someone who doesn't practice can also get lucky, but I don't believe it. This is my bias towards hard work. Luck favors the deligent like Deepak

Actually, my windowsUpdate situation is better than CSY's situation, becasue I have a working solution.

--update https://bintanvictor.wordpress.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=36414&action=edit
My PIP experience was truly traumatic with permant scars, but my benchtime experiences were extremely light in comparison:

* before Polaris
* between 95G and Barcap
* between RTS and mvea

--new Hai3Deng1 effect
t_uchicago
Most people who claim an expertise do have some expertise, even if exaggerated slightly. Most audience won't bother to verify the credentials.

My UChicago GPA is 100% authentic. In a fast-moving market, credibility and assurance from known-brands matter. Probably needed it in a declining phase of my career. It's insurance protection for my career.

My java/c++ QQ knowledge is not advanced expertise, but is enough to pass many external benchmarks.

--fuxi
jGC knowledge is high-churn. The insight and halo you build loses value over 10 years.

--fuxi: untitled
For all my career esp. after 35, my competitive strengths in theoretical + details are evergreen and vital advantages in tech IV.

Performance (including bigO, but excluding field turning) is all about details.

In contrast, speed coding is less of "my game". It is like a sprint race for a footballer.

