--no
my record in GS is no bad record any more

--no
Rahul is ambitious , same as Sunil, Ashish, Yang .... I'm not. I just want to do a professional job and stay at a level I'm comfortable

--compared to Rahul putting his heart into a job..
In recent years, my focus was on ffree, IV maintenance (contract rate),... 
... not promotion, or staying long and growing my value-add 

Corporate ambition, stress, competition, serious designs ... threatens to reduce my easy life and give me cance

--no blog
I feel that Jack is competent with localSys GTD but weak on c++ and comp science.

Does he have working knowledge of c++? I assume so. Working knowledge is attainable in a couple of months for a clean language, and up to a year for c++

The level of working knowledge and basic skill is very low for localSys GTD.

His c++ knowledge is probably barely enough to do the job. Remember I didn't know what things live on java heap vs stack.

Based on my guesstimate, he would fail any c++ interview and any algo interview. He can write simple SQL in an interview, but I am not sure if he can write complex joins.

How about CSY? He can solve many algo problems without practice, but he is reluctant to practice. 

I think the self-sense of on-the-job competency is misleading. Many in their positions might feel GTD competency is more important than IV skills. They are so afraid of the benchmark that they don't want to study for it. 

When the thought of tech interview comes up, I think they wish to escape or cover their ears.

--Retire at Google?
CSDoctor thinks it's possible but I doubt it
However CSDoctor questions himself "To present myself as a team lead or architect, what do I have to offer them?"

--paradox: if I feel basically semi-retired on my rental income, why do I envy those with higher income?

I feel I'm able to feel OK with conserver lifestyle, but my family members would not feel so comfortable. See my blog on deprivation.

Pattern: 
Suddenly I happen to notice a few "peers" getting ahead in terms of salary ... and I get hit by the same inferiority complex as before.
Actually, people 10 years younger are not my peers
Actually, the manager types aren't my peers, as grandpa pointed out repeatedly.

Q: what do I treasure more? I don't really need the 20% extra income. 
A: easy life -- PIP, stigma .. are real risks in my career.
A: beautiful wife
A: SG citizenship
A: wellness
A: cash flow freedom over 20Y or till end of my life
A: robust career. Their careers may not be so robust if you look closely

--fuxi
sg job market remains as slow and thin as before. Still financial jobs constitute 90% of my job pool
JC has more suitable jobs than SG has including start-up.

Singapore non-finance companies simply can't afford because the main street dev salary is much lower than U.S.

The wall st salary level is largely influenced by west coast and also main street dev salary. No such influence in SG

--no blog
I told Rahul that I need to be independent to capture the engagement, but that's short term.

Over long term, what do I need to survive and thrive?
* sustained focus on localSys
* respect/appreciation
* not boxed into some unfavorable technology like high-churn 

--fuxi
Like Black developers .. As an older Singaporean developer I also have higher visibility.
IFF I apply myself (localSys) and establish a foundation at a new site as Piroz does, I think I could survive and possibly show my hidden strengths.

However, at Stirt I was unable to outshine other guys.

At Macq, I was unable to impress bosses.

--fuxi
the IV successes define me.
Without these successes, I am likely to feel a total failure and worthless. I will probably fall into this pit more than once a years -- self-knowledge.
