-- new: few]%%cohort have a top college degree
In their 20's, China was poorer, very few could get a scholarship to a branded college overseas, so they have to settle for a lower-tier.
After a certain age, a very low single-digit percentage would see enough justification for the high cost of a branded degree. 

Most of the Chinese peers already had a postgrad degree in their 20's. Hard to justify another postgrad degree. 

If they were unable to earn a branded degree, then I think that's one reason why so many of them have unrealistic evaluations of a branded degree.

-- new: title: Megaworld^Cambodia
My impression : Cambodia proess is many years faster. I already received my titles from Oxley, even though the projects completed much later than Megaworld.

I believe Megaworld invents countless internal steps before the documents go to the government. Initially it was, say 3 internal steps, but then one of the internal steps consist of 2 sub steps. Then one of theose 2 steps consists of 4 small steps... So the total steps keep growing, as Megaworld staff give new explanations of the detailed steps. In reality, perhaps each of the original steps should take a few months, so the smaller steps should take a few seconds, but Megaworld just drags on and on.

Very poor attitude in Megaworld. Reminds me of U.S. government red tapes in DMV, tax department, immigration...

Part of the delay might be Philippines government, but I don't think so.

—- new: Cambodia 20Y trend: OBOR
My impression of Cambodia even before OBOR .. 
Even in 2016, China was the leading infrastructure investor in the country. Long history of bigBrother/smallBrother brotherhood. Chinese companies haver too much capacity and need to expand to S.E.Asia. These companies include exporters, real estate, casino, manufacturing. They probably see Cambodia just like Guizhou.

After reading a a bit of political analysis of OBOR, I feel Cambodia has probably stronger dependency on China than other Asian countries.

* Cambodia government has probably the longest political alliance with China, which was tested after the Vietnam war, and during international sanctions. Among the ASEAN countries, China often views Cambodia as its natural confidant and uses it to sway regional policy decisions.
* Cambodia is one of the least developed S.E.Asian nations and need infrastructure (OBOR) more than other countries.

As long as Chinese investments (OBOR etc) keep flowing, the Cambodia economy would grow at the current fast pace. Real estate sector is esp. sensitive to Chinese investment. In a way, I am long OBOR -and- long Sino-Cambodia ties. You can say I have placed big bets.

https://www.orfonline.org/research/china-relationship-asean-explainer/: 

One of the ASEAN countries closest to China is Cambodia, often accused of kowtowing to China. Its economic, military, educational and cultural relations with China are robust. It has deep penetration of BRI projects. It downplays the South China Sea issue within ASEAN forums. In many ways, Cambodia represents the dilemmas of a small insecure nation with an authoritarian regime in need of the backing of a great power to survive. 

All politics is local, including Cambodia's.

-- new or update 
inflation (beyond CPI) is largely driven by exclub.
fancy food, branded clothing, residential property, luxury car, branded college ... 

As exclub demand increases, vendors increase prices. I think governments can't do a lot, except property cooling measures.

-- new or update
as I age, I see more and more similarities between branded college and branded clothing. The consumer here is the parent. Parents spend very large amount of disposable income on these status items. 

-- new: personal system4stock-picking 
if you want to gradually develop a personal stock-picking "system", then you need to make a large number of small but real decision, over different times. A few big trades won't grow your confidence fast enough.

To become an experienced stock investor, you also need to make many informed decisions and learn from that experience.

Q: how much retrospective analysis needed?
A: not about how many hours but how much traction you gain (not wheel-spinning). You should cut down the review when you notice dimishing return.

Quick learning is an advantage of stock vis-a-vis other investments.

==== new: Felicia discussion
Main topics: HDB purchase; eqMufu

-- I told Felicia I'm well-diversified but 
my concentration in property is rather high.
Bonds .. none. Bonds are a reliable, popular, useful asset class to consider. Remember the K.Hu discussion?
China .. not a lot of geographical allocation except the Beijing property. I think eqMufu is a reasonable idea.

-- Felicia thinks net rental yield of 3-4% is not very high. eqMufu can be better.
In the U.S. I should really favor MOETF. In SG, without converting my SGD, I should really consider more eqMufu.

With caution against 100% into eqMufu she pointed out that Diva has generated 10% annualized return since inception. This is the fund manager's claim, not her claim. She's very confident about DIVA, based on trec.

I believe SP500 would outperform most eqMufu over the next 50 years at least.

I believe since inception, probably 3 years out of every 10 had negative returns.
-- Felicia cautioned me .. HDB rental demand from foreigners could fluctuate in the long run. In the U.S. rental market, half the tenants are local Americans. There is therefore more risk in my HDB rental model
When I explained to her why I won't sell my HDB even while I'm settled in the US, I realized my deep bias and skyhigh confidence in the SG economy. Over the long term, my confidence would be put to the test.

Compared to China, U.S. and S.E.Asia, I still feel far more confident about SG HDB property.

Once I live through and understand U.S. rental property risks, I might conclude that SG is low maintenance but low yield.
-- update post on DRIP
Somehow the theory assumes that most people who opt for cash dividend would spend any payout. I think some 20% of them would leave it in the brokerage account for future buys.

If you withdraw the cash dividend, then there is higher chance of spending it.
====

-- update blogpost https://tanbinvest.dreamhosters.com/2017/01/20/semi-conscious-luxury-spend/
On vacations (even at home) my family sometimes feel "why are we so careful spending money?".

People want "freedom" to spend.  Similarly, people want freedom to eat whatever they want, and the freedom not to exercise or brush teeth, the freedom to sleep any time they want and get up only when they want to. All of these freedoms are detrimental to the body (not to mention the mind)

careful ≈ conscious ≠ frugal. I do spend quite a bit on education, reunion flights, piano courses, wpress hosting, multiple laptops, books, ... Not so frugal, but conscious spending, not mindless spending.

-- ocbc mtg:
you can request HDB for valuation, but ocbc will concurrently do their own valuation, which can be faster.

as soon as you sign otp, you can send otp + myInfo (salary slip unneeded) to ocbc. L@Offer is available within a week "definitely", perhaps before the hdb valuation is available.

bridging loan interest is higher than mtg rate.

SORA mtg rate is likely lower than SIBOR rate. 

Board rate, SORA .. all need you to keep outstanding amount above 50% (of original) within first 2 years. However, given how low the mtg rate is, you could invest to earn higher rate.

-- Jun.Z on SG condo
t_misperception
appreciation is slow in most locations. Don't believe agents who boast their appreciation potential.

Foreigner demand is dampened by ABSD, esp. in non-prime locations. These locations are mostly sold to local buyers.

-- fuxi: Jun.Z on cars
German cars are expensive if new, but cheaper than Japanese as a used car. He felt by design Japanese cars can go for many years after first 10Y.

So I had the misperception that German cars are designed better, stronger.

I think this is really a brainwash by my friends. 

I suspect there's a similar brainwash against wood houses.

-- update blogpost on Maslow
My T_defense collects many reflections of safety concerns

-- update livelihood blogs (S.Liu or Maslow)
[[Nomadland]] and many other movies and songs portray the livelihood pressures (even hardships) of ordinary people in relatively affluent locations by global standard. (For example, most Singaporeans would feel some livelihood pressure.) For them, my ezlife on the cash flow high ground is .. dream. 

I like mathematical criteria for that high ground, such as brbr, Fuller Wealth. By these criteria, my ezlife and my high ground are realistic for some of them, but they lack something to achieve the same.

-- new or update gold^U.S.eq^rEstate: long-term strength
gold offers inflation hedge only over the long term. 

https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/08/gold-as-an-inflation-hedge-history-suggests-otherwise.html

"If you look at the very long term, gold should hold its value against inflation. But in any shorter period, it may or may not be a good hedge,"

Am sure there are multiple analyses on the limitation of gold as an inflation hedge.

-- new or update SG inflation: 30Y personal xp #basket
Even U.S. inflation is not so bad in the short term. 

https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/08/gold-as-an-inflation-hedge-history-suggests-otherwise.html says (The Federal Reserve tries to keep inflation around 2% per year.)

-- new: some retirees do worry about inflation eroding nest egg
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/06/07/heres-an-option-to-protect-your-portfolio-from-inflation.html says Inflation is a top concern as investors fret about the rising cost of groceries, housing, gasoline and other living expenses.

Q: Is this widespread in the U.S. or Singapore?
A: I have limited insight. I would assume this is a top concern among some retirees in every country.

We can look at actual inflation. One of the biggest complaints of Chinese citizens is inflation in everyday purchases (excluding housing). SG is not bad as discussed in several blogposts. 

Q: is SGD 3k CRBR realistic? 
A: I still feel confident. 

-- fuxi: Singapore HDB locations
Yishun central HDB estate has nearly everything, but lower valuation mostly due to the affluent favoring d2city (how about Holland Village?). I guess Tampines, JurongEast are similar.

Bishan has worse d2city than TPY, but has better connectivity, library, jogging track.. In X years, I would not care about some of these factors.

-- MOETF rebalance
Many high-yield bluechips should get higher allocation
concentration risk -- increase allocation on low concentration sectors
* consumer
* telco
* mining, usually international

Increase international stocks without heavy U.S. presence

Some sectors are interest-rate sensitive. Need to avoid topping up, but they have DYOC

--update Tianjue.Lin blogpost
In my younger days, I had to work hard over decades to improve my status for the mating competition.  When I first had kids, I didn't believe the likes of WQ.Luo. I was driven to improve housing, education resources... for my kids, engaging in the arms race with millions of other parents.

Simiarly, the inflation fear was a widespread brainwash.

Medical cost inflation fear was driven by my own parents...

All of these "struggles" are taught to every young men as part of Chinese enculuration.

Therefore, I felt perhaps $3M would be needed. Those around me who gave up on ffree were seen as _quitters_.

-- update "ffree is a state of mind"
What's the real difference between me and my cohort in terms of ffree ?

I record/reconcile my burn rate over decades, and have high confidence in my forecast.
I have a reliable nonwork income in cpfLife and HDB rental, not counting other rental properties.
I say and feel I can stop working any time .. Statement 1
I say both parents can stop working indefinitely (and my family can live a reasonable, comfortable life) .. Statement 2. 
I sometimes say that I have more money than I need for my lifetime .. Statement 3. 
^^^ My circle of a few dozen friends never say these things. Am I serious? Yes. I didn't say what kind of family lifestyle Statement 2/3 entail. 

I often feel free to (and actually did) choose lower jobs. I don't think many in my cohort feel that same level of freedom.

I have no worries about medical, retirement income, long-term inflation. I think many of my cohort are not so care-free. These are big components of long-term ffree.

-- update blogpost on (de)stressor..
buy-n-forget SP500_ETF relies on the index admin as stock pickers to adjust the portfolio

buy-n-forget a single stock doesn't involve exit-timing. Can rarely beat SP500_ETF.

Other ETFs, like sector ETF or other countries' ETF are usually less successful than SP500_ETF

--new: index investing relies on the index-admin as stock-picker
I think US index funds show far better returns than other regional indices. When we say mutual funds can't beat the index, we only mean the U.S. broad indices.

The admin of the indices are the real stock pickers and portfolio managers for those passive funds. 

-- new: which middle-class aspiration ≠ LG2
t_cmcUS
So far, all the blogposts on this broad topic (..) have singled out aspirations that are non-consequential:

Branded college
SDXQ
Spacious home
Car ownership
..

Q: Is there one middle-class aspiration that I do subscribe to?
safe, conducive school? This is not just for middle-class
Safe, clean street? No. This is not just for middle-class

-- update blogpost on SG retirement location
I used to focus on d2stadium, d2lib. Now only d2mrt is important. In my older days, even d2mrt would be less important. Remote parts of SG is best.
