--residential pros and cons
:) faster to sell because more investors are familiar with the asset class
:) faster appreciation due to hot money, _but_ less stable
:( More of a commodity, not as precious as prime location shop units.
:( rental yield lower, despite what marketers say
:( higher risk of buying overpriced

--new: precious
shops are precious only in primte retail locations. Consider shops in industrial parks.

Office units are precious only in prime commercial locations.

Residential can be precious in elite locations such as school districts.

--ff rental
BridgeFF: 5% after tax
Diamond twin tower: 150k deal is "first 3 year rent-free to seller at 8% of 197k". After 3Y, rental yield could be lower.

--credit risk .. A single number is unable to capture the whole picture
In terms of the reputation at stake, Oxley is better
In terms of GRR trec， MIH is slightly better

--concentration risk at the bkk1 location
This location may not take off as an office location
Orchard does have office demands.

--concentration risk in PP retail sector esp. in the bkk1 district
saturation? Oversupply?

--which office location has the lowest risk excluding existing CBD?
bkk1

--New: location: key-tag
location is key, but needs a "key-tag" i.e. psf, which needs to include GRR.

On one extreme, SG is great location but I rule it out because of psf price level.

On the other extreme, Land-banking locations are cheap but hopeless.

Diamond island office locatinon is less mature than bkk1 but could be popular with Chinese companies

If MIH psf (after GRR) is higher than BridgeFF, then need to reconsider. 

If you consider MIH as a high-yield bond (with a 95% put option), then location doesn't matter. However, location matters at a fundamental level as it underlies credit risk and appreciation potential

--location maturity level
current CBD is the mature commercial center. PPCC is next to CBD.

bkk1 district is mature as a shopping/retail district, esp. anchored by Aeon and Nagaworld. My 3 shop units are in the right location.

Diamond island has some maturity as commercial location but i feel the location has limited potential as a 2nd CBD

PPCC is most raw, most uncertain, but with the highest potential as a commercial office location. 
However, Flatiron psf price is too high if without GRR.

--project: MIH
:( lesser known developer
:) Ascott lending credibility on the residential portion. Unlike all other projects

:( high quantum

:( location -- higher uncertainty
:) location -- hedge against the bkk1 district. capture the potential for both
:( location -- if no take-off within 10Y, then I would rely on developer to rent out my unit. They may not have my best interest.
:( location -- may be hard to sell

--project: diamond twin tower
:( location even more remote than theBridge
:( 150k heavy
:( in a down turn, th3 prime locations would hold much better

--project: purple
:) affordable, but not compared to my past shop units.
:) higher rental yield than other residential locations, only according to agents. I feel vacancy risk is high. The rich don't prefer to rent a studio! The working class prefer convenient locations in the city.
:) lower psf than other residential locations
:( not a prime location. I don't like the sales pitch about the potential.
