-- update bpost on changes i want to see
stop locking family members out of home

-- fuxi: police officer interview
I asked 3 things of police 1) take him away for a while 2) CCTV for evidence 3) stern warning next time to drive home the message
Police did #3.

-- fuxi: chat with Yifei
I said attachment to my current job is unhealthy. I can aim for just one more year at a time.
In my WStC years, I had lower income and job security, but higher confidence.

Yifei pointed out if dabao has leadership then unlikely to be so unmotivated, dependent on parents.

I often say that 碌碌无为 也可以有圆满的人生, but provided my kids put in effort. Singapore doesn't encourage /welfare/ dependent citizens.

-- fuxi: chat with Chen Fang of 关怀800
Self-care 
What makes you stay calm in the face of challenges.
Less confrontation (like peace-keeper), more listening
expectations tend to create tension and pressure 
Paste the SOS number so boy can call it.
wife is easier to help... boy is a tough nut to crack
At age 16, what did you want of your parents? How about ahboy?

-- new: $reward/penalty: practical tips
tip: small frequent $rewards
tip: Recording is tiresome. Record reasons for larger amounts. 
tip: giving_seasons -- avoid financial penalty. Avoid a mixed season when parents both give and take.
tip: random, impulsive... no need to be consistent.

I told my kids repeatedly that deduction is very sensitive and rarely justified. Now I think a few big deductions a year is acceptable.

-- fuxi
Look at those who adopt a child when they already have multiple kids. These parents find it a joy to build up a good child, regadless of grades or the branded colleges. 

I feel the parent would be glad and satisfied if their adopted children can graduate from high school and become an independent upright citizen. I guess the parents of autistic kids may feel the same. 

My dad has a slightly higher goal for his grandson -- finish poly or community college.

What's the response of a typical Asian mother? She may say that without a good degree her son would struggle on the job market. There is no right or wrong but I now feel the fear is exaggerated. The same mother may say that a starting salary of SGD 5k would still be a struggle because a private property costs SGD 1M.

--new: defiance: Doreen's input (CGC)
validation/reflection of the defiant child. Hopefully, the child will feel better and become less defiant. Step 2 is laying down the boundary. 
I feel the first step is crucial, and often neglected.

针锋相对 firm stance is not effective.

Avoid physical confrontation completely, even if it means surrender. Physical fights can escalate easily, even when you believe you or the other person has adequate self-constraint. In real-life situations, people lose self-constraints quite often.

Calling the police can be effective for a while only.

-- fuxi: boy's attitude over dental appt
Today (10 Dec 2023) I had a 30-min call with IMH Youth helpline.

* invalid assumption: it's easy to manage appointment

* Youth today has too much distractions than my younger days. It can make them unable to lead a disciplined life

* remind him of dental decays, but stop short of urging or nagging. Leave to him to make his appointments. Refrain from doing it for him.

* he self-identifies as an adult, and doesn't want to be controlled at home. 

* pick your battle (counsellor's parting advice).. Some crucial aspects we parents must control, but other aspects like dental care, we have to let go to avoid endless family conflicts.

-- fuxi: Aunt Genn's input
What do you do on the screen at 3am?

Be less fixated on the negative and the boundaries. Be more relaxed, nurturing, lighthearted, supportive, 

Wall TimeCard -- ask him to keep track. The more he is in charge, the more he is willing to cooperate.

Be more flexible with sleep time. Once a week he can power off 2am

-- fuxi: Q: boy deserves a reward after his 2023 finals?
A: I think he would not have deserved such a special reward if he had fared well like As and Bs.

What form of reward, given his effort going to the exam? He didn't give up as much as in WA3
Cash reward? $300?

-- U.S. high schools might be too relaxed for my son, too dependent on individual initiative as if these students are adults.
In the same vein, XMS's philosophy might be too dependent on the same.
I feel my son needs more strict dicipline and more heavy homework. Perhaps JC has some advantage over poly.

-- sugg: read grandp's memoir to boy

-- new: yoga ^ boy
t_jolt
In yoga classes, I am "weak" overall, but there are a few /precious/ bright spots.
improvement? Mostly invisible, but there are some success stories in my yoga journey.
consistent effort .. 
even though I do put in non-trivial effort, I don't put in enough practice. Enough is probably 30m a day.
The yoga instructors would sigh and accept my attitude

My lotus ... was probably enough effort.
lifelong mission .. I can't ignore it, or brush it under the carpet forever.

We want to utilize external help, but many people don't want to rely so much on external help. It's often more sustainable to build up a home practice

-- fuxi
Outing with boy is time well spent. Any exercise is a bonus.
Someone even recommended co-play and co-watch on his phone.
-- new preFGO #JiaHui 
first we apply for screening, knowing there would be a record at MSF.

If no behavior issues uncovered, we would fail the screening and be referred to FSC.

If we pass screening, there will be 6M of compulsory weekly counselling for all 3 family members. Truancy will be recorded.

After counselling/therapy, parents can decide to proceed to Youth Court.

If we proceed to court, and court grants FGO, and there is any truancy record, boy will be escorted to SBH for 1 month, while the assigned officer completes the initial set-up.

There will be a record of the SBH "jail" sentence.

-- what if he underperforms himself in OLE?
Ms Chia -- just deal with it at that time.
Senior CGC Dr Clarence -- Let him fail.
Edwin -- he can re-sit

-- fuxi
ask each kid to tell me one enjoyable time when dad spends time with you that make you feel comfortable?

boy .. cycling?
meimei .. singing?

The hours I sacrifice for them may not be effective on the receiving end.

--new: worst unacceptable outcome@boy
.. is not benchmark disappointments including career progression
.. is not wellness condition like teeth
EAP counseller David's answer -- refusal to talk to parents
Grandpa's answer -- running away from home
My answer -- effort. If he puts in effort but ends up with those results, I feel I would love him unconditionally. I recall XR's autistic son.

Teresa Teng was not a strong math student (perhaps like my daughter) but worked hard at every subject.

Grandma notices the tension between two forces inside me. She drew this analogy -- imagine your spouse is diagnoised with cancer. You experience the huge pressure to take on the huge legwork and chose treatment options for the spouse. At the same time, you may also feel the tendency to reject the cancer, and blame the cancer, but the cancer won't go away. Grandma said the 2nd, negative emotion is counterproductive. Yet it is real and common. 
I feel grandma gave a good analogy. The cancer may be incurable. You still have a job to fight it and slow down its progression.

Remember Biden's love for his son, despite the son's drug problem. I would say Biden is still a successful father. Indeed a father would be successful if he did his best to stop the progression of such an addiction.

In the same blogpost about Biden, there's also a gay son's story. 

I'm no perfect child myself. If I have a son like me, is there something I can't accept? Theft!
