Multiple investigators asked me what changed in Oct/Nov that led to the escalation of conflicts between Yixin and parents.

Answer 1: nothing changed that led to Yixin's mistreatment of Mom. Same behavior for a long time. Tension boiled over after I started calling police. I dared not do so when Yixin was cramming for O-levels. (He would be affected by police, or he could retaliate and threaten to skip an exam.)

Answer 2: The exam cram also emboldened him to stand firm against bathing and against early sleep, as if it would affect his mood for study. Yixin seemed to know exactly what he needs to do and what he must not do, in order to maximize cramming. His erratic study/sleep schedule also made him uninterested in family meals or unsweetened water. By the end of O-levels, parents had developed a strong perception of a stone-cold, irritable/ill-tempered, self-centered, self-isolated, self-sabotaging, deaf and stubborn teenager.

Answer 3: Yixing's existing anti-social behavior intensified during the O-levels. For example, he insisted on loud music as "I absolutely need it tonight, to study for tomorrow's exam." Other anti-social behaviors against family members
* blocking Mom going out
* snatching Mom's phone by force
* messing up sister's belongings in retaliation
* pushing 

Answer 4: exam cram disrrupted our family bonding times. We used to have weekly family times -- cycling, beach fun, dining out, movie night, game night. (I used to have regular chats with Yixin after midnight.) I get the sense (without evidence) that this "wheel" ground to a halt sometime in August 2024. After O-levels, the wheel is tentatively restarting. We had a bit of family outing within Singapore, but Yixin appeared determined to have it "my way, or no way". It became more vocal during Tokyo family trip.

Yixin would arrive at airport an hour later than the family .. deliberately late. Once, he insisted on taking subway by himself while the rest shared a taxi to airport. More than once he arrived right before gate closing, after all other passengers. 

Similar behavior at remote train stations... He refused to travel with family, and decided to arrive at train stations by himself close to departure time. (Next departure was hours away.)

Most annoying -- at xxxxxxxxxx family was in a hurry to catch a 4pm train. Yixin bluntly refused to finish his icecream (disallowed on train) in time, and deliberately missed that 4pm train. (I was trembling with anger.) I took the 4pm train by myself to avoid physical fight over his icecream. Mom decided to wait for Yixin to finish icecream, and board a later train, even though she worried about missing the connecting train.

Note this is our first Japan trip. No one understands Japanese. Yixin carried limited cash and no credit cards. His phone was often low-battery. He knew parents were worried every time. He seems to shrug it off like "I know what I'm doing. I can come home by myself" eve in the cold weather. 

In these stories, he was repeatedly reminded, but rejected, the common practice of "buffer" and margin of safety. It reminds me of teenage drivers speeding at the legal limit on an empty highway, without seat belt, eating lunch while watching live sports. 

Whenever family was looking for a dinner place, Yixin would take 20 to 40 minutes searching. He would dismiss dozens of restaurants. Frequently, other family members would tell him "hungry" and "Make up your mind in 10 minuets" but he would act deaf. Half the time, I gave up after following him over 10 minutes, and returned to hotel by myself, in protest or in disgust.

Tokyo subway trains have last train timing around midnight. Yixin would frequently aim at those, knowing the risk of missing the last train. This risk was worse when night temperature dropped towards zero, and Yixin's sister and mother had no choice but follow him around (because they can't navigate Tokyo subway). Most of the time, they were unable to persuade Yixin to return before midnight. I suspect that if Mom had insisted, then Yixin would have sent them home (i.e. to hotel) earlier -- not exactly "my way or no way". Once, he did send them home earlier.