Hi Grace,
Thanks for clarifying your system limitations. I'm a grateful Singaporean. I complain so as to help systems improve to better serve fellow Singaporeans.

Yixin's Current status: 
* sleep .. starts 3am, 4am, or 6am... no need to wake up tired and catch school
* shower ... he last showered 5 Oct. He is the sole decision-maker about when to shower again. On 5 Oct, he did take up my bold suggestion once -- pour a pail of water and complete a 1-second shower head to toe.
* screen time .. I guess he studies 1-3 hours a day, only at night. Entire morning and afternoon on screens. I told Mom this is better than some kids who give up on studies completely. We had no way to control him as he frequently threatens to skip the exams.
* disrespect for any authority such as teachers, O-level examiners, and even police. He probably feels the police is ineffective. Yixin has said that he plans to join the gangs. I have a bit of reason to believe him.
* Physical conflict .. no more between Mom and Yixin. The biggest change needed is on parent's side. Parents need to accept the reality, let go (of our expectations), mellow up, accept the real, imperfect child as is.

However, Yixin sometimes becomes angry and hit his little siter on the shoulders and hips. He explained that she had (with intention) messed up his belongings, and his hitting was only a rough play like in his younger years.

I'm sad to oserve that in his phone, Yixin has marked my mobile number as a blocked caller so his phone doesn't ring when I call... has lasted at least 2 months. (He does answer Mom's call.) He probably doesn't feel a need to answer any phone call from me, because has has little respect for me.

He has even less respect for Mom. You can tell from shower, from screen time control, sleep schedule etc. A telltale evidence is his attitude on mom's cooking. Mom always cooks for him but since Oct 2024 he seldom eats mom's cooking. He doesn't inform mom "Hey Mom, I'm not eating home lunch." and is never apologetic. An even stronger evidence of disrespect lies in his pattern of behavior when we agree to rendezvous somewhere for a family outing. For the past 6 months, he would invariably make Mom (sometimes his sister + father) wait for 30 to 60 minutes, 9 out of 10 times.

I told my wife that both of us were treated as servants by Yixi. My wife has started to use the same phrase in conversations.

For Mom and me, every attempt to discipline, control or punish him has failed. For example, if Mom doesn't cook for him (because he has repeatedly refused to eat her cooking), he would accuse Mom of starving him. If I take away his phone, he would refuse to study anything at all, or threaten to run away from home, or join the street gangs. I also told him "After 18, you need to earn a living for yourself. I won't be a servant and ATM for you, while you treat me like dirt", but he doesn't care. If I find him uncooperative/disrespectful and decide not to go out with him for cycling, he would know that he has little to lose, but I have a lot to lose -- I need those cycling trips to maintain the father-son bond.

During 2024, the only time he would open up and talk to me was the weekend cycling trips or weekdays after midnight. Now, they have dried up.

Frequently, Yixin is emotional, quick-tempered, sometimes intolerant of Mom and Dad, and occasionally aggressive. You know what, so am I as the parent. I oscillate between two modes -- 

1) the normal father .. self-constrained adult, tolerant, understanding, sometimes forgiving, always keeping cool
2) the bitter, tough man  .. disappointed, contempt, fearful, sometimes angry, even vindictive.

Sometimes I noticed the bitter father in me. (Unconditional acceptance of my son is a holy grail I don't aim to reach.) The punishing instinct in me tends to trigger a dangerous overreaction in Yixin, sometimes explosive, sometimes aggressive.

Sometime in Sep 2024, I once grabbed and pulled his laptop with force, demanding that he put away the screen and answer my questions (rather than ignoring me). Yixin got up and smashed a chair on the floor and then threw another chair on the floor. One of them was damaged. I didn't punish him.

You can tell who has real power at home. 

Since Oct, Yixin has often insisted on his right to music even after midnight. I always tells him 1) my cardiologist told me late sleep increases risk of heart attack so I need to sleep early 2) I'm a light sleeper and easily disturbed by noise 3) Yixin's younger sister need to get up 6am for school 4) Mom needs 8 hours of sleep so both of them need to sleep by 11pm. 

When Mom and Dad suggested earphones (he bought many branded ones) or playing music behind his bedroom doors, he refused because "uncomfortable".

Yixin insisted that 1) upon request, he has reduced volume to the mimimum by his standard 2) if that's still too loud, then "It's your problem as three light sleepers". 3) Yixin is sometimes willing to sacrifice a bit more, but it is "out of my way to help you guys".  More than once, I grabbed his device with force, because after repeated requests he still asked me to wait. I interpreted it as indefinite wait, when immediate action was expected. I was prepared for his resistance, but he didn't fight me. He later referred to my action as "violence" but I didn't hurt my son. We can discuss more in an audio session.

You asked about the non-negotiables ... I would say hitting his younger sister is unacceptable, and loud music beyond midnight is also off limit. There are other physical acts I can tell you in an audio session. All other issues are relatively minor, including his disrespect for parents, and his self-harming behaviors (for his eyesight, his diet, his sleep etc... can discuss in a call.)

I think Yixin has ODD (oppositional defiant disorder), but I was instructed to avoid labelling my kids as such. Yixin is turning down counselling even though the counsellor is nearby and a nice guy that he liked.

I do what I can to keep whatever little harmony left in the family... 
Perhaps Yixin is testing the limit of our unconditional acceptance. It's a game of testing and provocation. As my dad urged me, I refuse to give up on Yixin. I refuse to lose my cool.
