Hi YH,
In the last call, you mentioned an unnamed friend worth $3.5M. 
Suppose you are in his shoes, with the same net asset, but you reconnect with an ex-classmate, now worth 10 times higher.

Q1: How would you feel in that situation? 

I think many people in that situation would feel "I wish I have that 10x wealth.", even though the current wealth is already very, very high. 
Our aspirations won't stop growing when we hit a certain net asset. 
Our aspirations are mostly guided by peer comparison. At net asset USD 1.5M, you (and most of our peers) are many times above the global median household net asset, but our "peer" group is 50 times wealthier than the global median! 
So we are really comparing with a peer group of the ultra rich.

A note on "ultra rich" -- About 10 years ago, I read a Malaysian magazine. 
The Malaysian benchmark for Ultra high net worth was MYR 10,000k = USD 2,400k. 
Malaysia is among the top 10 richest countries in Asia if you exclude tiny nations like Qatar, Brunei, Bahrain, Kuwait. See https://moneyinc.com/richest-countries-in-asia/

My personal answer to Q1, as mentioned in our call -- "With 3.5M, I already have enough. I don't need 10 times more." Basically the Taoist and Buddhist view. This is nothing academic. I didn't read any religious book about these. This is part of traditional Chinese culture we grew up in. I don't know if you have a problem with traditional teaching. Well, Buddhism, Confucianism and many other philosophies have evolved for 2000+ years and have some value. 

Right now in 2021, I would give the same answer to Q1, though I'm not $3.5M rich, not even close. Suppose I receive $5M extra money (inheritance or windfall profit) when I migrate to the U.S. the extra money would enable me to hire a maid + professional tutors, buy a home rather than renting, and enroll my kids to private schools, and buy a good car.

But Hey, I don't really NEED any of these, not in Singapore, and hopefully not later in the U.S. 

At our age, each of us, based on our individual circumstances, can draw a line in the sand, between livelihood needs vs aspirations. Those aspirations lie beyond the line because they are luxuries, wishes, desires, not necessities for a reasonable livelihood. I think my dad would say that to me.

I wrote earlier "aspirations won't stop growing", that is, until we say NO to mindless peer comparison, and draw that line in the sand. This is hard, as hard as practicing Buddhism on a daily basis, that's why most people's aspirations won't stop growing. They would still struggle under pressure even when their net asset and income is a few times the national median.

I try to follow this invisible line in the sand. I think that's how I can feel well-off and carefree while others struggle. It's hard to convince you I'm truly well-off. I will give a few minor points:

* in 2018-2019, I chose to live in Bayonne so my current plan is -- when I bring my family over, we stay as a renter family in Bayonne or Jersey City. No home ownership in a top school district.
* I have walked away from higher job offers more than 5 times.
* my wife stopped working in 2019. In a way, we don't absolutely need her salary. 
* Most of my peers have a car, but I insist that a car is not needed in Singapore.
* Every month the unspent salary income I squirrel away is 2-4 times our burn rate including insurance premiums, property tax and income tax.
* my kids don't need to attend top colleges. My father said a U.S. community college would be good for my son, though he hopes his grandson can hit higher.

-- parenting aspirations
I think you seem to subscribe to a belief that more financial resources would produce a better child. I guess the correlation is rather low. I can throw more "help" on my kids and they would not become top of the class. The top students in the class are someone else, not necessarily from a rich family. Beyond a certian limit, more financial "help" is not needed. 

Even for a bright child, the limiting factor is usually his own abilities and motivation, not financial resources.

However, I do notice the universal pattern that well-off families tend to produce better students. Granted, financial resources can give our children the best schools and teachers, but that's a minor factor. Financial resources can "buy" earlier intervention, more parenting care and attention, and better healthcare for the child. In my observation, most successful people didn't come from top schools. In fact after the child becomes a young adult, around age 18, the schools and compoanies she gets into depends mostly on her choices and her abilities, less on her family wealth.

One speial domain is organized annual competitions. Those competitions require expensive training over many years, so the correlation between results and financial resources is higher. Well, I'm not interested in those competitions. They are aspirations, not a livelihood requirement.
