10 Jan outburst
Yixin was hopeful about O-level results. After he woke up (like 1 pm) on 10 Jan, Yixin and Mom arranged for family dinner at Somerset to celebrate the anticipated good news.

For the 20th day, Yixin refused to shower, brush teeth or wash face, so he went out to school 2 pm in his unclean appearance. (We don't know why he chose this appearance, but I think he disregards many social norms.)

No news from him for hours. His phone battery had already been half-dead since Nov 2024 (He refused to replace it.) so Mom couldn't call him.

Sometime after 8pm, because meimei was already hungry, Mom decided to bring her to eat at Yixin's favorite Somerset restaurant, hoping that Yixin would join her (as he did before). I was decisive in supporting Mom's decision. I told her "You can't wait for him indefinitely. If already hungry, then you should eat. Don't worry. Yixin would understand. I know him.".... Well, I underestimated Yixin's condition.

23:21 on 10 Jan, I received a wechat from Mom "Please rush home and save my life." (请你快点回来救命吧,我快死了). I reached home around 23:30. Yixin had just cycled to home in the rain (rather than by MRT!), in a wet, dirty and scary appearance (angry drunkard appearance??). I found Mom in the living room, speechless, in tears, shaking with anger. I could tell she was trying to be calm and brave, but actually scared. Immediately, I decided to stay completely calm and play peace-keeper, as I did before. In hind sight, the first moment when I opened the door felt like a curtain-opening scene in a horror movie, except this was real life :(

Mom then told me what happened. Yixin was devastated by his results, and had become infuriated because Mom finished dinner without him. So now he demanded Mom to accompany him to a Serangoon restaurant. Yixin was convinced that this restaurant alone had the comfort food he needed tonight.

I joined Mom to calm him down (supportive, uplifting stance), explain and persuade my son, but he dismissed every help and every explanation:
* both parents were actually feeling unwell on 10 Jan, sneezing, coughing, runny nose
* Mom said she got up 6am on 10 Jan, and "now is midnight", so she needed rest, badly
* I said I could go, instead of Mom, even though my cardiologist told me to avoid late sleep.
* Yixin could go by himself if, as he said, he didn't like dad's company. As peace-keeper, I didn't get offended to hear that. 
* (After Mom conceded) Since MRT ended, we offered to call taxi, but Yixin firmly believed that taxi would ruin his experience. He insisted that Mom cycles with him to Serangoon in rain. His way or no way.

After an hour of excruciating negotiation with the angry boy (yelling, and glass punching), I realized this tug-of-war would go on for hours. Yixin usually goes to bed 4am, 5am or 7am, so probably Mom and me would not get to sleep until 3am on 11 Jan! I told him repeatedly that both parents understood his feelings, but Mom needed rest, and Mom was clearly in physical and emotional pain. He completely ignored all that! I felt the situation was hopeless, unsustainable and unstable -- I might lose my calm as the peace-keeper, lose my "unconditional love" for my son, and might say something "firm" to him.

( I had learned from experience, that any "firm" stance would send a uncomfortable/hostile signal to him, and trigger an outburst. )

Then came the turning point -- I was feeling "As peace keeper, I can't endure another 2 hours." so I picked up my phone. Yixin challenged me "Are you calling police again." I said "No you didn't cause any harm. I only want to call counselling to manage my emotions. I don't want to lose temper and smash things." Yixin soon grew aggressive "Yes, I dare you to smash. But I don't want you to tell your counsellers about me."

A short while later, when I approached him to examine his bleeding fingers, he snatched my phone and smashed it. I was shocked but calm. I picked up my phone and went out, explaining to Yixin that I would Not call police.

My phone was damaged beyond repair but temporarily usable. Once outside, I tried and failed to get to any helpline, so I went back home, but was locked out by Yixin. I pleaded "Open the door please, otherwise I have to call police to help me." He refused because "You didn't listen to me. You called your counsellor." I decided to dialed 999 but soon Mom unlocked the door, so I hang up 999 without giving any personal details. Unknow to me, 999 system had a recent record of my phone number and my earlier 999 emergency calls. They dispatched 2 officers "just in case another incident happened in this household."

When I saw police at lift lobby, I stopped them. I told them "No harm done. No risk of physical conflict. You can leave. If you still go in, my son would hate me and may punish me." (I was proven.) I told police I was scared of offending and alienating my son. Police decided to go in. Police noticed my damaged phone, the furniture damaged by Yixin's fist, and open wounds on Yixin's fist. They asked and answered a lot of questions. I believe there was no offense by Yixin, except smashing my phone. I was glad police didn't scold him.

From 11.30 pm until police arrived, Yixin was simply and uttlerly beyond control and refused to listen. He was angry, fearless and refused to let go of Mom. After the recent police case on his smashing behavior, we all hoped that some hard lessons could bring him to his senses, or to his repentance.... Wishful thinking! He probably believed he was right and Mom was guilty (breaking her dinner promise). He probably believed Dad was wrong to call police, not only on 10 Jan but in every single incident. He never looked into himself to see what might be wrong.

Police was able to control him, brought him to calm. Without police it would have been a night without peace, without rest, and with deeper pains and scars in Mom and me. It seemed that Yixin had so much pain in him (O-level results, and Mom's broken promise etc), it had transformed into a powerful negative energy that would keep him going ... demanding Mom's submission. 

(In fact, half-way through the negotiation, Mom did conceded. "It's past midnight and raining. I can go with you to that restaurant by taxi.". Yixin refused and demand cycling instead.)

Without police, there was no way for parents to overcome Yixin's energy and Power. There was no competition here. If I were to stand "firm", it could easily trigger a physical conflict such as smashing or worse. 

We parents had no power, no authority at home.

I believe Yixin would try to escape every time before the police arrives. Therefore, 10 Jan might be the only time police was able to hold him down and talk to him in-depth. On 10 Jan, from the non-verbal communications I observed, it was clear to me Yixin hated any police intervention, like interrogation, or fact-finding. Looks like he had something to hide, perhaps his motivation, his adult influences, his inability to control anger, his (powerful and extreme) attitude towards parents.... 

Unlike counsellors, police don't worry about Yixin walking away. They collected valuable data from Yixin. On the two recent conflict scenes, I felt lucky that police were able to collect evidence and eye-witness reports beyond my verbal description. Data collected are instrumental and will enable me to engage with authorities and external help.

Q: risk of divorce?
Police brought up a real question about risk of divorce in families with a violent son... Moms and dads could have serious parenting disagreements. Hearing it, my wife and me both nodded. She often accused me of ruining YIxin's future by calling in law enforcement.

Q: risk of self-harm?
One counsellor asked me about this risk. I said I do see it in my wife. Over 12 months, she did say a few times "This life is too tough. I can't live this life any longer. 活不下去了"