-- network effect 
Hi Kenneth,
Thanks for your Valuable personal insights! Today I have another hypothesis for your comments.

When Singapore parents look beyond the Singapore universities, presumably 80% look at UK/Au (by that I also include NZ). I think North America is "too far" and perhaps more expensive on average.  However, I see a hidden advantage to the U.S. -- I call it the network effect.

If your chosen college is physically in the middle of the biggest network of opportunities/activities, then by default, you get more access to the biggest network. Universities and high-end employers form such networks, usually aided by geographical proximity.

The 2nd biggest of such networks might be greater China, but the current #1 is North America, home to the highest concentration of world-class universities and employers.
* If my son (not so academic) gets into a 2nd tier college in the US there would be many campus events, seminars, internships, training programs, alumni support, ... that connect him to the "local area network"  and the NorthAmerica "wide area network".
* If my daughter gets into a college in UK/Au, the "wide area network" available to her would be somewhat smaller than the NorthAmerica network.

I believe the EastCoast network and WestCoast network (vis-a-vis UK/Au networks) offer higher value in terms of jobs and learning opportunities. Therefore, they represent hidden advantages to my son relative to my daughter in the scenario depicted.  

I believe the cross-network exchange (of opportunities, fund, talent..) is over-stated, and conversely, proximity still matters. eg: WallSt often hires interns from tristate colleges more than the other 47 states. A lot of the internship positions do not require high talent and therefore do not justify casting a wide net globally hoping to catch the most talented candidates from all over the world.eg: a 2nd-tier college is not well-known across continents, but is easily recognized in the home state. (My degree from NUS is relatively unknown in the U.S. vis-a-vis many 2nd-tier local colleges). Name recognition helps job seeking and applying to further studies.cross-network exchange takes deliberate effort and is costly in money and time, but look at the local network (esp. within a city like Singapore or Boston or Hong Kong) -- Within a local network, people, jobs, gossips, alcohol, games, sex, and drugs... are on free flow, for good or bad. All based on geographical proximity. I have always imagined that "If I were enrolled in a U.S. college in 1994, instead of NUS, given my talent and aspirations, I would have had a good chance of getting into a tech giant or WallSt." Looking back, I am not sure. I was lucky and successful to get into WallSt at age 33. Due to the network effect, WallSt doesn't recruit much from NUS [1], so I almost missed my opportunity to get into WallSt. I think WallSt is suitable for me, possibly the most suitable domain for me. WallSt (i.e. trading industry globally) is selfish, cut-throat, ruthless, but has treated me well, not only in terms of compensation+benefits. So I feel my entire families' comfortable life rests on my WallSt career.

[1] Many WallSt firms including MLP and many investment banks have a Singapore office and do hire from NUS. However, the bar is very high, the positions very few, and mobility within the industry much much lower than in New York. As a result, it is hard for an NUS grad to get into a trading firm, and move within the industry to a more suitable position. In my financial industry career, I had to move several times to find a more suitable position.