-- ED is the technical term for the difficulty we discussed in January 2024, during my New York work trip.

I think I had growing difficulties over decades, and stablized during covid, which was an "unexpected success". 

Then in 2023 I suffered an steep decline. As I described over phone, I got a huge blow to my self-confidence and self-esteem ... "Knocked out". I felt hopeless, like falling off a cliff into a yawning abyss. 

The harder I tried, and the more I wanted to "regain" whatever, the tougher it gets. I think Performance Anxiety is one element. 

Even when I could "get in", I often failed to last very long. A few times I felt (still happens in 2023) the gratification and pleasure was so transient and fleeting. Known as "PE", this condition affects the level of fulfillment, but doesn't affect self-confidence, therefore not a primary concern to me.

I was decisive to seek urologist help. Many things didn't work, but the pill worked. Even now, I often feel the pill is nothing short of a miracle. As I told you, I remind myself that aging may entail a higher dosage, which may lead to side effects. The regular pill may stop working so miraculously. I think some professional (if not a friend) compared it to cars -- As my milage builds, my engine/transmission, my pipes and gears,,,, get worn out and require more and more frequent servicing.

(Related to some Buddhist teaching) I remind myself to enjoy what I have now, however brief. I thank God for my fulfillment. Cross the bridge when I come to it, not to worry about it too early. 

Many times I do feel grateful to my wife. Self-talk works.

In general, with aging, we tend to develop 三高 -- high cholesterol, high blood sugar, high blood pressure. For years, I was only aware of my borderline cholesterol. Alas, these three risks are now creeping up on me. In Apr 2024, I had a chance discovery of CAD (coronary artery disease). My heart arteries had developed multiple plagues (cholesterol deposits), causing up to 50% blockage of blood flow to my heart. No stenting or bypass required yet, but I need a lot of medication to control and prevent blood clotting or further plaque build-up in my coronary arteries. (Plaque build-up elsewhere can lead to stroke. )

Cause of my CAD is not so much of diet/exercise, but more likely family history + aging, which also affect my risks of diabetes and hypertension. (Am currently fixated on these few risks.)

I have family history of hypertension but not diabetes. My current blood pressue is close to 130/80 which is my own perceived borderline zone. My current Hba1c is 5.9%, slightly below prediabetes level.

In the recent episode of pessimism, I felt like doomed to develop 三高. Despite my rather healthy lifestyle, I am predisposed for high colesterol and CAD. I may not be predisposed for diabetes or hypertension. In fact, my dad has none of the three highs even in his 80s.

Each of the three conditions is scary, affecting diet, exercise, sexual fulfillment, sleep, work schedule, job choices,,, The more I research the more anxieties and worries I find. I am gradually coming to terms with my mortality and my aging. Immediately after the CAD shock discovery, my grief has been traumatic, but I have quickly found strength, and largely recovered in terms of confidence, determination and commitment.

"Your life changes the moment you make a new, congruent, committed decision." 

If my other conditions deteriorate into early stage hypertension or prediabetes, I will go through another grieving phase. I hope by then, I have already had a long good life with my wife.

-- coding as recreation
I told you about energy sinks. (I have blogged about this topic, but I can't reference my blog.) One of my top 3 energy sinks is recreational reading/blogging. You asked a tricky question "If I have some leisure time, how do I choose between recreational reading and rereational coding?"

Despite your best effort, I think this question is still vague as it depends on many factors, such as mood, motivation, 

When I have an automation task in office (or at home), I would spend hours researching, tweaknig my scripts... rewarding and satisfying.
If I have not done recreational coding for many months, I would feel more motivated.
Before/after a coding interview, perhaps for a friend, or as an interviewer, I would feel more motivated.
When learning some unfamiliar language feature, I would be keen to write some code to investigate, explore. 
When I have only small windows of spare time, reading/blogging is convenient.

Some people write games in their spare time. I don't enjoy anything gaming.
Some people write GUI in their spare time. I don't enjoy GUI coding including mobile or web apps. In my 20s and 30s I did enjoy web application dev.