Thanks for your short and sharp question.
As explained by the long list in my livelihood mail, Livelihood is higher than minimum survival. The Singapore government has always used some criteria to judge if a family has livelihood needs. Their criteria are higher than minimum survival. Worldwide, I guess 90% still struggle to cope with “livelihood” as defined by my long list. In rich countries, half the population still have livelihood concerns (so do I), so I wouldn't say the threshold is low. I feel your idea of livelihood is much lower than mine.

I'm fully aware that my livelihood concerns are a distant threat because in Singapore I'm able to enjoy a decent living at a reasonable cost to my family, because half of the livelihood needs (defined in the long list) are taken care of by the government. I once discussed with a China->Singapore->Canada immigrant and she hinted that Singapore provides more, even though it is not a welfare state. When we move to the U.S. the livelihood concerns would grow. By my standard, most Americans are left to fend for themselves. I'm now building a war chest ($200k - $400k) precisely for this reason.
My happiness is more than marginally correlated with my livelihood. Notice that livelihood is the "keyword" running through this email thread.

To answer your question, I seldom think and blog about "happiness". I use alternative words like "motivations, carefree, peace, esteem, life chances..." Instead of the obvious, common "sources of happiness", I will try to go down memory lane and pick some unusual "sources" for our reading pleasure (and writing pleasure).

Since 1999, I have derived joy, self-esteem, motivation ... from tech interviews. I seldom attend interviews nowadays, but they continue to provide essential protection for my family livelihood in Singapore and the U.S. Beside interviews, I study lots of technical topics as a hobby, having written 3000+ technical blog posts since 2007. Learning and applying software technology is both a long-term hobby+ a means of livelihood. I continue to work full time because I enjoy working along with co-workers, doing something useful, keeping myself engaged. I guess, without evidence, that the day I have to stop writing code completely, I will feel a loss. Coding is what i'm trained for, where I add value, and where I accumulate and apply a bit of expertise. It is gradually turning into an intrinsic joy and fun, but for my entire career up to now, it is largely an extrinsic source of esteem, peace, and life chances. It provides mobility to me and my kids, although this mobility is an extra advantage beyond standard livelihood.  

A growing source of motivation, confidence and long-term peace ... is weight and fitness improvement over the last 3 years. If (a big if) I maintain BMI and amount of workout, then I hope to enjoy healthy longevity, which is by far the most fundamental element of happiness. I have written 100+ blog posts on this topic and had numerous discussions.
A minor source of pride and comfort for the last 5 years ... is my UChicago achievement. You and I were top students in high school, but in my undergrad years at NUS (National U of Singapore), my grades slipped to just above-average, progressively eroding my self-esteem. For decades since, I had perceived myself no longer part of the elite (I once belonged to) in terms of academics and intelligence .. ????. Uchicago restored my diminished self-esteem. NUS and UChicago are elite colleges, beyond my concept of livelihood. My kids don't need them.
A recent source of thrill and joy ... is stock picking. I have hand-picked 130+ stocks excluding ETFs. I have numerous discussions with several fellow investors, and written dozens of blog posts. Let me know if you have specific questions to discuss. You once mentioned 8% compound return as a benchmark. I only developed some appreciation of it after stock pcking for a while.
Last but not least, reading and writing has been a hobby and source of intellectual joy, peace, insight/discovery, ... since teenage years and will continue into my retirement. My dad, author of 20 academic books and co-author of 10 more books, is even more devoted to reading and writing, but has stopped reading and writing due to health (not "aging" per se). So you can bet what is truly my #1 source of happiness, peace, confidence and life chances. 
Although most of my "listed" livelihood needs are taken care of, my life at 47 is sitll littered with negatives (anger, parenting pains, wellness decline, technology churn, age discrimination..). At this moment, it feels like I'm more motivated to maintain and protect the current carefree easy life, rather than seeking more happiness.
What are your sources of happiness? 