subject:

Hi Silvester,

No change in plan. Just a bit more reflections of our discussion and my what earlier emails.

I wrote earlier about "professionally managed" but poorly performing mutual funds, supposedly "safe" bond funds that take years to recover. I'm unimpressed with those fund managers, but SingLife and FWD are also fund managers, who manage long-term asset growth and perform "smoothing". I now rely on these professionals to provide me a consistent, reliable stream of income.

For decades, I pursued high returns in equity mutual funds. Now I favor SP500 ETF .. low cost, better return than most equality or bond funds. To complement my growing fixed income portfolio, I need to aim for a bigger SP500 allocation, like 500k to 1000k.

For decades, I pursuied high payouts in bond funds. Now I prefer "packaged fixed-income" assets that generate a "fixed income". As stated earlier, my and my mom's "fixed-income" assets include (approximately ranked by size)

RMB deposits in China
USD fixed deposits in Singapore and Cambodia
annuities (FWD, FLi150, FLi250,,,) ... lifetime payout, but rate not guaranteed
cpf .. lower liquidity
SGD savings accounts

Why this shift in risk appetite, towards "fixed-incomes"? I guess it's due to aging. My mom doesn't have big ticket purchases but has fixed expenses. In my case, I have only a couple of big ticket purchases in mind.

Big-ticket: College funding... quarterly tuition to pay. Arguably similar to my mom's fixed expenses but bigger quantums. Payer? Should be my kids themselves. I will help out of goood will, not out of obligation.

Big-ticket: Property.. I have quite a few, but now I am unsure whether my kids should take over in my 80s or I will remain the steward. My wife wants to invest in additional properties but for what? Rental income or appreciation?

Big-ticket: (elephant in the room) major medical while not working... I hope that my shield plans + cpfMA + critical illness plans will be enough. 

Medical cost is not big ticket item as long as I'm employed. Many company medical insurance plans can reimburse a lot of medical costs. Many companies also have group insurance (critical illness, disability,,,) that pay out at a rather late stage.

If no big tickets purchases to prepare for, then it's reasonable/legitmate to look for additional "fixed income" assets and higher regular incomes.

