For a few years, I used to imagine that Mom would grow old alone in Beijing. I felt an obligation to get her "evacuated" and let her grow old in Singapore. Now I have a reversal of perception. I now think she would be less miserable in DJDJ than in Singapore.

#1 healthcare .. her favorite hospital is nearby; I have also seen the DJDJ in-house medical staff and facilities ... very good

language barrier and chitchat partners .. DJDJ is excellent. 

food .. more suitable (for her) than Singapore food

freedom to spend money on healthcare + self-care .. about twice more costly in Singapore, excluding housing cost.

housing cost ... higher in Singapore than DJDJ, for the same quality

weather .. Mom is used to Beijing weather and may find Singapore too hot and humid. During winter, she won't need to go out much, except hospital.

----
I now imagine that (assuming she had not found DJDJ) after a few years of living in Singapore, we would all wish to find a decent nursing home for her in China. It would be extremely challenging to make that selection remotely, so we would likely give up. That means Mom would be "stuck" in Singapore with all the imperfections.

( The only city familiar to her is Beijing, and she is unlikely to accept Tianjin due to her medical insurance constraints.)

As it turns out, DJDJ is one of the best nursing homes, given Mom's financial position. "Best" in terms of proximity to her hospital, professional care, mental health support (dementia risk), hardware/facilities,,,, DJDJ is the game changer and a "black swan" .. something I never thought existed.

Biggest factor to her mental health is social interaction. Mom has more relatives n friends in and outside DJDJ + nursing staff, to keep her engaged and slow down brain aging. These individuals provide more quality face time for Mom than my family can provide for her in Singapore. 

When she lives outside China, her weekly chitchat with her emotional support group will slowly dry up, due to lack of shared context. Their conversation will move away from complex, multi-layered topics because those lengthy topics often require a facetime session, an essential possibility only if she lives in Beijing. Additinally, mom often provides emotional support to her friends, and it makes her proud, confident, and gives a meaning to her retirement life.

If (not when) she develops dementia, then the China treatment will be more effective due to language and cultural affinity. As you said, these elderly individuals need familiarity. After dementia sets in, we will stick to DJDJ. I trust the China system for dementia care.

I feel lucky and confident about her well-trained caretakers in a professional nursing home. They do a better job than I can. Now I feel that every time I visit her in her Beijing nursing home, I feel happy to see her. But if she lives with me in Singapore she would become a dependent for me, and add real workload. My wife may need to take it up, but clearly it's unwanted workload. I always value quiet time, and never want to take on extra workload. Mom and I both can become stubborn. Our relationship may not remain so positively memorable and cherished.

(For example, an elderly mother of my friend XR refused to take her medication and became a headache to my friend.)

Last but not least, one of Mom's hidden advantages is her status as a Chinese citizen, widow of a decorated 老兵，老党员，老学者. For these and other reasons, she receives some amount of preferential treatment by the "system". Am being vague here. I used to worry and doubt the China system. Now I see the system as functional, if not efficient and transparent. By leaving the China system, she abandons this huge advantage.

For the same reason, in 2020 Dad was determined, even desperate, to leave Singapore and grow old in China. He was unwilling to die in Singapore from Covid19. He knew the China system would treat him with respect and priority. He was wise.

For the same reason, I would retire in Singapore+Malaysia, where I enjoy similar advantages.


