I sometimes feel sad to observe that in his iPhone, Yixin has marked my mobile number as a blocked caller so his phone doesn't ring when I call... has lasted at least 2 months. Even if not "blocked", he has not answered my call or messages for at least 4 months. (He does answer Mom's call.) He probably doesn't feel a need to answer any phone call from me, because he has has little respect for me.

He has even less respect for Mom. 
* shower .. Yixin refused to shower for 45 days. He last showered 5 Oct. He is the sole decision-maker about when to shower again. On 5 Oct, he did take up my bold suggestion once -- pour a pail of water and complete a 1-second shower head to toe. He knew Mom was suffering (sobbing and wailing) but he showed no empathy for her.
* mom's cooking... Mom always cooks for him but since Oct 2024 he seldom eats mom's cooking. He doesn't inform mom "Hey Mom, I'm not eating home lunch." and is never apologetic. 
* A stronger evidence of disrespect lies in his pattern of behavior after we agree to rendezvous somewhere for a family outing. For the past 6 months, he would invariably make Mom (+ sister sometimes) wait for 30 to 60 minutes, nine out of ten times.

I told my wife that both of us were treated as servants by Yixi. My wife has started to use the same phrase.

For Mom and Dad, every attempt to discipline, control or punish him has failed. If Mom doesn't cook for him (because he has repeatedly refused to eat her cooking), he would accuse Mom of starving him. If I take away his phone, he would refuse to study anything at all, or threaten to run away from home, or join the street gangs. I also told him "After 18, you need to earn a living for yourself. I won't be a servant and ATM for you, while you treat me like dirt", but he doesn't care. If I find him uncooperative/disrespectful and decide not to go out with him for cycling, he would know that he has little to lose, but I have a lot to lose -- I need those cycling trips to maintain the father-son bond.

Yixin is fearless and beyond parental control .. He needs a healthy dose of fear-of-law.

On 9 Nov 2024, I finally called 999 from home, when Yixin snatched Mom's phone, and forcibly refused to release it. Background: Mom wanted to go out with little sister. Yixin wanted to join. Mom said "Only if you shower first" (no shower since 5 Oct).

Without her phone, Mom was then unable to go out. Sister also failed to get the phone from Yixin. I tried to take it but met with fierce resistance. Instead of losing my temper and a peaceful heartbeat, instead of raising my voice and blood pressure, instead of waiting indefinitely for Yixin to relent, I chose to avoid the danger of a wrestle, and dialed 999. Police came over some 30 minutes later but by then, Mom had managed to get her phone from Yixin and left. I met police downstairs. I told them I had a heart condition and must avoid physical fights. They confirmed that tussles for phone could be potentially dangerous, so calling police was indeed the safer option.

Police priorities are .. 1) injury 2) no one should live in fear. Police won't care about furniture damage, but up to 2022, we had had 2 doors damaged beyond repair, both by an angry Yixin. Yixin also threw chairs on the floor in protest to my forcible action.

Mom is completely against me calling in law enforcement. Law enforcement is available to prevent physical harm in the family, but I suspect that deep inside, she would rather get injured (during a tussle) than get Yixin investigated. I have told her that Yixin has not committed crimes.

Yixin is nearly fearless about Police/court/mentalHospital. Whenever I mention those, Yixin would accuse me in front of Mom. ("A loving parent would never do that.") On the other hand, Yixin is clever enough to present a "typical rebellious teenager" image to investigators. He is increasingly confident that the authorities would leave it as a minor family issue.