My dad's wisdom of "尽职尽责/尽你所能" .. for me is hard to translate. I will translate to "as best you can". 

Avoid mistakes, avoid negative attitudes, avoid stubborn positions, avoid offending boss.. I am not a people-pleaser at all, so it's too tough to avoid "irritating the boss". 

If employee's best effort is not enough for a given role, it's probably a "role mismatch" as Macquarie boss said. Then it would be employer's problem to deal with. If employer choose termination, then employer should do their part to "compensate", though they have no legal obligation. From a Buddhist perspective, I guess my dad's wisdom means 淡定, not holding too tight. 船到桥头自然直 as you said.

I tend to forget many pointers after a conversation. (Some people would take notes on the spot but it can be distracting). I have a (good) habit to summarize those pointers in writing, but now I agree with you that sending it by email can be problematic in the work environment.

My local manager 老印 (or my senior manager in NY, American) have not complained about my slowness. Even if they do, it's still less alarming, less scary than an "error-prone" reputation. Even worse would be errors leading to production outage.  (Another big mistake is compliance breach such as sending source code to gmail. ) A quality reputation for a SWE (i.e. software engineer) is hard to earn, easy to lose. One of my colleagues (2Y in the team) has yet to make any mistake, but is slightly low profile and quiet. Does he have a quality reputation? Not quite yet, perhaps becuase he has not made many large-scale system changes to demonstrate his quality mindset. In contrast, I made a few medium-scale changes, and many many small changes. My dedicated QA team may find some imperfections in my output, but I think so far none of my mistakes has any production impact or required rework. I think I'm above average among SWEs. 

So far, my 老印 manager only raised concern across the entire team that all of us in Asia are unable to stepping up for production support.

Combining Sense of urgency and 细水长流... My son has some sense of urgency but not enough by my stanard. At work, I do feel a sense of urgency but probably not enough by manager's standard. 细水长流 is a sustainable pace of work for the older SWE. I don't feel any employer is embracing it. 细水长流 means steady progress, not zero-progress or sluggish progress, but my steady progress may be perceived as sluggish progress...sigh.