
-- the 5 meetups are meaningful and memorable
None of them rose up to a leadership role.
Hai suffered a layoff

-- fuxi: well done
I reviewed mtg 2023 statement well in advance, to pre-empt a key stressor that would emerge on 20 Jan 
I bend over backward to avoid plastic bottles in the hotel even though they provide it free
I bend over backward to avoid discarding foods, esp. expensive foods
eco .. saving water and heating power in hotel
laundry .. saving time, money (for employer), and water/electricity
food waste .. avoided every day, in every buying decision
I gave away lots of chocolates/peanuts as they became emotional baggage .. I didn't want to trash perfectly good food.
was able to get up (and sleep) as planned
able to add value to Swat effort .. main j4 this entire trip
had some chia. The amount I brought is more than what I would need, so one or two servings (per week) are very good.
All my meet-up dinners featured healthy items.
yoga .. emphasized throughout
laptop .. avoid carrying it back n forth... reducing hazards
lipitor, dental .. consistently
santander .. closed successfully.
L36 didn't give any problem as feared, partly because I took care of it... avoid carrying it enroute
I used *108* throughout my NYC stay, to save money for MLP

-- fuxi: lucky so far
meimie is very close to daddy.. 小棉袄
boy is improving drastically
NY remains a viable job market for me
HRblock process is now familar and simpler
hotel-office commute very convenient
Swat team isn't going to look into Genepai limitations and those paper-over-cracks
Boss was helpful in many discussions
no sickness whatsoever
wellness center
Some of the fancy restaurant dishes were... special
I ate at Sakura lounge just 30m before boarding... this way I delay both breakfast and lunch.
tongue wound healed

===== time mgmt
-- fuxi: G5 priorities:
engagement with swat team .. top priority of management. More important than Genepai-Algo
[2] solitude campout mode and make progress on Genepai-algo... Not so much progress, perhaps due to distractions [meetups, gift-buying, non-Genepai projects,,,]
maintain diet, workout. If workout requires time, then let's allocate the time. prefer simpler ones .. see bpost on NY2024 workout

[2] I don't want to be critical on my productivity
Q2: what measurable progress criteria do project assessors have in terms of Fail/Pass/Exceed?
%%A: looks like very low bar. 
Q2b: Lucky guy, or karma?
%%A: karma i.e. cause and effect

-- distractions
:) no kids; no DIYHI; no mailbox
fine dining on my own .. high tcost on research, plann,, Low value
nostalgic destinations .. 8thAve is similar to Flushing. Lucky I didn't go.
===== update bpost on diet/workout
small ice creams, small cakes worked better for BMI and waste reduction, even though higher unit cost. 
-- DosToros:
Bowl is much better value than tacos x2. SeeWhatYouPick. Total t$cost is much better than all the restaurants I have tried.
Overall, I feel wholesome about (my version of) DosToros. This came as a surprise. 

Starch .. rather low. Mostly in (controlled amount of) beans, farro
cooked veg .. tasty and not oily
raw veg .. better taste in the bowl, than my all-raw veg
meat .. no visible fat
guaca .. slightly lighter than avocado. Portion size is limited by defaut :)

-- I chose to relax my "delay meal" rule again (relaxed frequently in SG like company meals, family meals...) because it was impractical at that time. As HuiMei said, I need quality of life.

-- 17 Jan I had lots of raw veg.
-- 18 Jan had some raw veg
gave away some starchy snack to Fiona
delayed lunch till 7pm. Relatively healthy DosToros meal. 
Greenwich lounge : careful food selection
starch .. good control 
delayed meal on flight.. /commendable/ even if "by an hour"
Sakura Lounge .. had some raw veg, veg soup, and avoided rice, visible fat


If food quality is comparable in-flight vs at airport, then I would skip airport meal, to save cost for employer