-- new: flight mode, roam`cost
Mobile communication can use 3 channels:
WW: wifi
DD: mobile data
VV: voice network including GSM, CDMA and LTE. SMS uses the same network, rather than wifi or mobile data.

Flight mode on phones or computers disables all of them.

Reduce roaming cost .. avoid DD + calls. Flight_mode is overkill. Incoming_SMS_on_roaming is often free. WW doesn't depend on SIM card or roaming.

SIM card (including roaming) provides DD/VV not WW. In other words, DD/VV require SIM cards. Computers and tablets without SIM cards can use WW not DD/VV.

* Connected mobile APPs require either WW or DD and may occassionally use SMS (requires VV)
* Connected computer applications require WW and never require DD/VV.

Whatsapp/Wechat calls use WW/DD not VV
Many smartphone apps can launch voice calls.. either VV call or VOIP call. The VV call would require a SIM and take up your precious airtime.

-- new: microsoft account synch across devices
Background: I can see the value of synching my google profile. In my company computer, my google account is inaccessible, so I see no synching. Tolerable.

Microsoft account offers a similar synching feature. However, password synch is tricky.

Q: what if I update my microsoft password on microsoft.com, but often need to log in on my laptop without connection?
A: the laptop log-in could fail. A show-stopper. Therefore, I don't use micrsoft account at all.

-- fuxi:
in Gmail, a mail thread can show up as having a pending draft, but you can't find that draft letter anywhere.

Solution: right click on the mail -> discardDrafts

-- update bpost on disk hogs
Compared to SocialTab, the "ForumTab" name is more vague, more versatile .. more suitable as tempUpdate

laptop disk usage tweakig with landgrab, treeFreeSize ,,, 
Comparable to rug sorting in #610 home?
may not be necessary, but I find it enjoyable
It is less irrelevant in small, cheap laptops
The analysis gives me insight and confidence when facing disk shortage

-- fuxi: if MSEdge horizontal scrollbar missing
The H-scrollbar auto-hides when no scrolling needed! With Ctrl/+ I was able to reveal it unconditionally.

-- fuxi: wireless@sg: attitude
Treat it as bonus. Don't rely on it.
You are not entitled to commercial support !
Support is best-effort and not very reliable. 

call 1800 837 9979 (Monday to Friday, 8.30am to 6.00pm)
