-- update 43R
Raymond of GEX described co-living in SG condo, which confirmed my hypothesis that 43R arrangement can achieve 2-3 times rental compared to renting out to a single family.

When I first analyzed 43R, I was initially unsure of that.

-- update 1 preclear a day
if I preclear a lot for a day, but later find myself in a power surge for math session or something else, then the pressure to do something about the pre-cleared stock is an unwanted distraction.

-- update or new: U.S. CPI impact@the lower-income
Lower-income population spend bigger portion on food + energy [gas, heating,,]

-- update ..which blogpost
sg^us?

In SG, there's free and high-quality telemedicine and online counselling by chat. In U.S. such a free service would see over-demand and create long queues.

-- new or update
Singaporeans have a romanticized perception of a landed or free-hold property. Relying on it for wealth-preservation is relying on the local economy over the long horizon. over 100 years, how confident are you about a local economy in, say, a muncipality?

rEstate is overrated among the Chinese. Remember Bryan of RTS?

Chinese investors also have a romanticized perception of gold, but I believe it is less reliable than gov bonds, CPF or annuities. (Also, gold has negative DYOC.)  Many want to leave gold as legacy, but I think it's much better to train the kids to be financial self-reliant.

-- new or update one of the blogposts on ccbr
in my old age, I still want (not "need") a salary.

Working full time in my 70s for a competitive salary to support aging parents and kids' college .. sounds like very tough and unsustainable.

My NNIA is sufficient for cbbr, but not sufficient to support my aging parents. I think this type of "support" is a luxury comparable to branded degree for my kids. There is one difference -- my aging parents have their pension income and nest egg.

-- update post on rbh or...
buy-n-forget is not so easy with the bond mufu. The expRatio (1%?) erodes the low return. 
I may need to babysit my positions !

When I read books on sREIT, I remember the AMB effort.. the differences in terms of reluctance.

I recall that when I was told stock picking requires reading financial statements, I balked. Then in 2020 I developed my 3-min due diligence. 

It turned out that zero commission and fractional investing removed the bulk of the burden/reluctance/drudgery of due diligence.

-- slow-cooking update https://tanbinvest.dreamhosters.com/20155/beatiindexabsreturndyoclearning-choose-your-goals/ or 
It's crucial to be clear what exactly we want out of stock trading. Many valid priorities of other investors are not important to us. In fact, these OPPs (other people's priorities) may get in our way. 

* when you take on those OPP, your life becomes more complicated, when it can be simpler like mine. You may have to babysit your positions. Your firewall is strained.
* when you take on those OPP, they could displace some of your true priorities. Analog: carry-on luggage vs checked luggage.
* when you take on those OPP, you may inadvertently take on more risks.

Matching SP500 return ... is a bad OPP
Investing 80% of my assets, and minimizing idle cash (make every dollar work hard) ... is an OPP

-- update which blogpost?
https://tanbinvest.dreamhosters.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=15097&action=edit
https://tanbinvest.dreamhosters.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=10138&action=edit

Compared to my peers, my net asset is not so remarkable. What's remarkable is my Fuller Wealth based on my target quality of life.

-- slow-cooking update livelihood blogs (S.Liu or Maslow)
[[Nomadland]] and many other movies and songs portray the livelihood pressures (even hardships) of ordinary people in relatively affluent locations (affluent as defined by global standard). For example, most Singaporeans would feel some livelihood pressure. 

For these individuals, my ezlife on the cash flow high ground is .. but a dream. 

I like mathematical criteria for that high ground, criteria like brbr, Fuller Wealth. By these criteria, my ezlife and my high ground are realistic for some of them, but they lack key incredients.

In my GEX course, I could see the livelihood pressure of many Singapore /nationals/ in their 40s, 50s and 60s

-- Hi Sok Ling,
I appreciate your time, your questions, your comments based on your experience with other companies' products and other customers. I like documenting my thoughts and reactions to such discussions -- these discussions have high "density", and I need chew them over.

) ECI (early critical illness) .. we spent a long time on this topic. Treatment costs are partially covered by shield plans + cpf medisave. What's not covered is rehab cost. My Prudential plan pays $27k till age 65. 

As I described in the pyramid, majority of diagnised ECI patients (pyramid base) are probably able to return to work within a year. Those who need to stop working for 5Y are a small minority IMO. The probability of hitting it before 65 is low. If you have real life stories, perhaps we can meet up again in Singpost Toa Payoh.

Insurance agents emphasize that when diagnosed with cancer, we don't want to work any more, but that's simply inconsistent with the reality I see. In fact, among the cancer patients I know, probably 100% of them choose to continue working while undergoing treatment. I said "choose to" not becuase I know they are rich, but because the treatment does not look massively disruptive, so it makes no sense to give up the job for that. In general I like working with colleagues, and plan to work till 70+. My work is not so stressful nowadays (compare to my early 40s) and will "improve" in my late 50s as I shift to less demanding jobs. So I doubt my job would interfere with my treatments for ECIs.

Nevertheless, getting an ECI is a harrowing experience emotionally, and a painful experience financially. To reduce the pains, I may consider a cancer insurance from FWD. I would appreciate if you can compare AXA product. No hurry. PrimeCare is a higher priority.

) hospitalization and surgery costs ... are much more likely than ADL events or ECI events. I think I have been hospitalized only once when not strictly necessary. My kids were hospitalized several times. Shield plans + PrimeCare are highly relevant to me.

) ADL .. i.e. long-term nurshing care insurance. I appreciate that you pointed out successful claim is not easy, presumably because ADL assessment is stringent. (Luckily my policies require just one or two ADL, not three.) My annual premiums add up to $6k+, much more than my other premiums. Not an accident, but due to gap analysis. We discussed various protections and gaps in between. I was already well covered on hospitalization, well-prepared on death/TPD, loss of income, but had no protection against long-term nursing care, until I noticed these ADL policies.

The ADL policies are more worthwhile than ECI plans, if we look at $10k/M lifetime payout. I aim to live 10-20Y with ADL conditions. 

Re PrimeCare,

I have probably never bought a NRB (non-reimbursement-based) medical insurance. I think one headache is the responsibility to remember what "benfits" there are available to me, in the middle of a medical event. If I don't remember, then I will fail to claim. (No such complexity with reimbursement-based.) So I think I need to keep a short summary of the benefits and periodically review them.

Another issue is, within a few years I am likely to relocate to the U.S. and will terminate PrimeCare. In the interim, I will have my company insurance that covers 100%, rather than the 95% coverage of integrated shield. So In a claim event, the NRB cash payout is additional income for me, but not so badly needed. 

-- fuxi: rate hike risks
I think it's prudent to reduce exposure to rate-sensitive sectors such as mReit. I don't like selling but I can reduce buying pace.
