--new: strategic needs a re-definition
jolt
(I used to update this thing in gmail or blog directly)

For a long time, the #1 strategic t-expense was quant, then c#/c++QQ, then codingDrill (the current yellowJersey).

Throughout 2019, I considered workout time as inferior to coding drill .. Over weekends or evenings I often feel nothing-done even though I push myself to do "a bit of" yoga, workout, or math-with-boy, exp tracking, 

Now I feel yoga and other fitness t-spend is arguably more strategic than learning stuff. I say this even though fitness improvement may not last.
Fitness has arguably the biggest impact on brain health and career longevity

! "Strategic" needs a re-definition. quant and c# were two wake-up calls that I tragically missed.

--new
jolt

Now I think my vague sense of 'burn' was a mix of  materialistic ROTI + self-discipline against the lazy self. 

(When thinking of burn/rot, there is always a stern, imposing self2judge at the back of my mind. )

I once demonized masturbation, eggs ... In 1993 I once beat myself up for not getting up earlier .... 
I used to set an expectation of such high self-discipline that every human would Fail, including grandpa, Wenqian, .. but I thought my standard was normal and achievable if I simply Try Hard. 

Now I'm older and wiser. 
I know these standards are too hard for mere humans. We humans are not machines. 
No one has such strong will as to force the body to do all the painful things.
In real people, the strong motivation comes from within, from a desire, not from self-discipline.

My diet is probably the best eg -- so tough, unenjoyable, but I could put up with it because the level of pain is lower than other people feels.  If you ask me to cut further and further, I will experience too much "pain" in terms of self-deprivation.

How about early rise? For 20 years it was impossible to last beyond 3 days. Now I have lasted about a month !
Self-discipline and will power has Never been the key in early rise.

Yoga is another unbelievable example -- painful, hopeless, no visible progress, No hope of sustained improvement, but against all odds, I did 2 sessions a week for 8 months in Bayonne. 

-- my deep (vague) disappointment with my renzi effort was largely due to the worldly, materialistic "progress". 

No progress, then time wasted. That's materialistic.

--update blogpost: pw: most important sites 
* wordpress: access
* github: access; tampering
* overseas banks: access
* local banks (lowest risk): $loss

====places to visit
-- Day trips:
Jewel@Changi

-- staycation
Downtown East
Changi Village

-- regional
Penang
Bali
Batam
Bintan
Tioman island
===
--email to Miles: why I have a warming feeling for New York City
After talking to you about your first impression with NYC, I decided to take this opportunity to reflect why I have a warming feeling for the big apple.

Many Americans tell me NYC is full of energy.  There are many young people, and many events. They make me feel lively, not lonely. I certainly wish to see more Chinese faces. Luckily, some of the young people and older people attracted to New  York City are actually Chinese. 

The three Chinatowns in NYC (Manhattan Chinatown, Flushing and eighth avenue) make me feel less isolated than in other U.S. cities.  Jersey City also has a large Chinese population, much higher than an average U.S. city.

Incomes are slightly higher in NYC than other U.S. cities. I feel lucky for that. Even though prices are also higher, I don’t usually buy anything in Manhattan. As a result, I get to save more in NYC than other cities. 

--
eg: accidental data usage -- waipo, grandma and me all did that with singtel prepaid card. It's a trap!
eg: starhub tv remote control : paid a channel by accident
eg: smrt card penalty
eg: retro fitness fee

Why i experience so much pain? I think I can learn to relax and accept just as I accepted many things in my life

--biggest problem with singtel prepaid card: accidental data usage
how do I block it permanently?

--
Over this hibernation period I could target
respect at work
weight and diet habit 
boy's studies -- benchmark++
net savings, 
fitness -- esp. yoga, 
coding drill -- hard to measure
QQ gain -- easier than coding drill
...

qSG period I focused on some questionable targets (dnlg QQ, C++/c# trec, branch-out, renzi) and didn't feel fulfilled, probably due to PIP. I did achieve basic ffree and trec in c++.

c++US period I had success with c++ trec, weight, yoga, coding drill, housing plan, but rather few visible progress.

Which do I prefer? #all relatively unbalanced, but realistic

Scenario 1: maintain the super-healthy weight (64kg) and diet; some respect; no visible progress esp. with boy

Scenario 2: QQ build-up, maintain c++critical mass, keep up coding drill, weight maintain at 66 kg but no other visible progress

Scenario 3: huge time on math without benchmark improvement; some respect; but no visible progress.

Scenario 4: some time on math without benchmark improvement; some respect; some QQ/codingDrill; weight back up to 67 - 70kg

--no blogpost: my current struggles #tectonic:
* boy's math? Is it my job or his job? In theory If I don't take any ownership then the pressure is completely off ... but realistically?
* [t] calorie count? I feel the Singapore climate adds 5 kg, even if my starch intake is halved 3 times
* yoga? now easier once I paid the membership fee :)
* figure-out-speed ] localSys
* [t?] CIV? LG2. How about review or simple problems?
* [t=tough struggle]

--as I age, more resources focused on wellness, parenting, per-investment, unfortunately less on tech xx

--new
publishing from git-blog is multi-step -- create new blogpost (many clicks), tag, remove it from git-blog, commit then git-push

Better do it in batch

Similarly, relocating a blogpost is also multi-step.

--fuxi: cigna
30D emergency coverage in U.S.
international emergency service - authorization needed
alternative therapies (certified) including TCM -- USD 800/Y
outpatient psychological -- USD 1500/Y
annual check up: usd 600 for me and for wife: Parkway is cashless
Dental usd 3k/person
orthodontic - 50% refund
vision: usd 300/person
6 face to face counseling sessions including marriage
obesity is not covered

24x7x365 call center
paperless claim
register e-payment to receive reimbursement

mobile app claim is "easier" than cignaEnvoy.com... photo/scan 
need to give diagnosis/symptom

submit claim within 90 days. 

network of providers (cashless)-- raffles, healthway, parkway ... 
--new? start discarding old stuff for emigration
Good to start discarding things early to spread out the mental load
* electronics
* books

--new?
intelligence, memory capacity, clear thinking, sharp perception ... can help the individual deal with depression and pessimism. I think most pessimistic thoughts are irrational and/or biased.

"Explanatory style" .. see [[learned optimism]]

"Mindfulness" is a therapy. This therapy can even cope with brain aging.

Memory is a muscle.. I think corrective thinking like my twister SMS is also a muscle one can improve by everyday training.

