Zofia's suicidal threats + unsustainable level of parenting stress

Background .. Yixin wanted to spend 3 weeks in Shanghai, staying with Mom's relatives. Here's the flight booking experience on Monday 20 Jan 2025.

I was in office. In the afternoon Zofia sent me a flight she found for Yixin. The day before (and on 18 Jan), she also found other flights. Yixin reviewed but rejected them. He was finding other flights and discussing with parents, in a happy dialog. No hurry to commit, until Monday (20 Jan). Somehow, both Yixin and Mom felt decision was due on Monday. By 21:46, Zofia had grown frustrated about Yixin's procrastination. Zofia wanted to wrap up early and sleep early, but it proved wishful thinking.

I came home around 11pm, prepared to play peace-keeper (and remained non-judgmental, self-restrained throughout). Mom explained repeatedly that she needed to sleep early (got up 6am today, next morning 6am again to send meimei off), but Yixin was not in a hurry to commit. Mom soon showed impatience, exhaustion, and powerless frustration.. which have grown since afternoon. Partly her own fault, because I guess Yixin was perhaps not rude to her on that day.

Yixin was rude when he shouted out, around 11 pm "I can't eat dinner when all of you are in living room. I need everyone to go to bedrooms when I eat." We all conceded.

Mom put Elaina to bed and told Yixin to book the flight by himself. I added that during payment, I would get up from bed to give my credit cards. However, Yixin asked Mom to stay with him presumably to help with due diligence. In fact, Zofia had no choice but to keep him company. History shows that Yixin would not let her go. He would make so much noise that Zofia wouldn't get to sleep. It is clear to me that he believes he has the right to demand that Mom keeps him company and Mom has no right to decline.

(In the past 5 years, I was the one to do due diligence for all flight bookings, but after I called police in Jan 2025, Yixin has stopped talking to me.)

I finished my dinner before midnight and went to bed. Couldn't sleep due to the constant debates in the living room. Main debate was about sleep-now-book-tomorrow or stay up for a few hours to finish booking. (Yixin sleeps 5am+ but Mom usually sleeps 11 pm.) They also debated about departure timing (21 Jan noon or 22 Jan). I overheard Mom saying "OK I can get up early tomorrow morning to buy what you need, but can you please ensure you reach airport tomorrow morning on time?" Yixin insisted on leaving home late, by MRT. Yixin disliked taxi and believed one-hour-before-take-off is a safe time to reach airport.

Yixin also blamed Mom for his phone. For months, Yixin's phone had a worn-out battery + shattered screen but he refused to repair them. On 19 Jan, Zofia persuaded him to replace faulty parts at Chinatown, but result was not perfect (much better than before). Zofia defended herself but Yixin didn't forgive Mom.

Zofia also pleaded for Yixin to eat his first and only meal since 24 hours ago. Yixin refused.

Zofia also begged Yixin to please take a two-minute shower (no shower since Japan trip in Nov 2024) before departure.

Yixin insisted on the cheapest flight and refused to accept $200 higher price even if the latter was a simple, safe and speedy purchase for Mom and Dad. We were requesting his permission to let us sleep. Cost is all borne by me, but Yixin seemed to perceive a higher fare as a personal defeat.

Hearing these debates, I told myself to stay calm, stay strong, stay detached, be the peace-keeper I need to be in this ongoing crisis. I literally chanted this message because throughout the evening, Zofia had hinted at suicide more than 5 times. Around 1aam, Zofia came into my bed room and said again she wanted to end her life. I told her, in Chinese, "I have to choose not to believe you. I know you feel unbearable, but if I get emotional and sympathize with you, you knew what happened and what will happen tonight -- I could say something firm and offend Yixin. He may hate me, punish me, even physically."

Later, when I got up to take a peek at the living room, I was saddened to see Zofia half-lying on the sofa with her head hanging in front her chest, lifeless. She appeared exhausted, crushed, and suffering. Meanwhile Yixin was focused on his phone. I quickly closed my eyes and came back to my room. The sight was unbearable, and I needed to stay detached.

I heard Zofia's final suicide threat around 1.30 am, when Yixin asked me to help with payment. (This was the only moment he was polite to me.) Zofia told Yixin explicitly, with hateful intensity, that she wanted to climb up our HDB block and jump off. I don't remember how Yixin responded. He probably said "Payment is done soon, and then you can sleep." I defended Yixin, saying "He is not punishing us or creating pain just for fun. He was dragging his feet earlier tonight, but now he is ready to complete booking."

After payment, Zofia went to bed and I went back to my room. I heard gaming commentary from Yixin's phone .. not too loud but enough to disturb my sleep. I sincerely asked him to please let Mom sleep. (Mom's room is about 4 meters from his phone, while my room is 15 meters away.) I also suggested "Perhaps go into your room and close your door, and Mom will no hear it." He didn't look at me at all (Contrast his politeness during payment!). I repeated my plea for several minutes until Yixin was fed up and shouted at me to stop nagging... "If too noisy Mom would tell me", and I said "Mom is too tired to get up." I decided to disengage and de-escalate. He kept the gaming noise on, but I was able to fall asleep, using my mobile app.

Some historical observations. Yixin has always enjoyed flight booking and taking flights. What changed in the last 6M that made the experience so painful, stressful and hazardous? I think Yixin now enjoys flight booking at late night, and risk taking such as reaching airport close to take-off. That's a small change in his preference. In contrast, the big change is -- Yixin now requires family members to follow his preferred style .. "my way or no way". If family don't want to follow him, then he would refuse to cooperate or make our lives miserable. You can see examples in the Japan trip description.

Yixin was not violent on 20 Jan 2025. I would say Zofia's ordeal on 20 Jan was partly her own making as she cared too much about Yixin making mistakes during flight booking. Still, the pattern over the last month is a concern. Yixin is growing beyond parental control and our parenting stress is becoming unsustainable. I have a confirmed heart condition (CAD). My cardiologist told me to avoid late sleep and avoid intense emotions, but I am convinced that my risk is much lower than my wife's risks... risk of self-harm, risk of mental breakdown, risk of saying or doing something harsh to Yixin, triggering a violent backlash (smashing etc).