-- updating shifting ..
bmi on and off
5/wk on for a year
academic coaching (not parenting per se) off for years and now on
AMB on briefly 
pff off for a long time and now on. I feel should reduce.
tech xx is completely off now.

Clearly, my absorbency and mental energy is limited. I am less effective when I spread myself too thin. I think chipaway is better for AMB, or take some time-off.

-- slow cooking update blogpost on more/less?
Fact: for some of us, we always feel insufficient allocation to this or that aspects of our lives. Ocassionally, we feel some over-allocation, too.

Our t-allocation decisions are dynamic, fluid and largely run by System1, therefore never precise and /impeccable/. 
I feel the need to constantly review our allocation decisions over short and long histories, and adjust.
I mean Allocation of time + System2 resources [attention, energy, absorbency...]

The higher ground I want to push toward is a situation where I find very few items constantly starved/underserved, and ideally the "starvation" is more evenly spread out to all areas.
On this higher ground, I would really remember a few (temporary) success stories of adjustment. The success stories empower me to endeavor to correct/adjust my allocation strategy, rather than the familiar powerless guilt driven by perfectionism.

in recent weeks, 
I have little to do on my job
I have decreased tech xx compared to years ago
I have :) reduced (or maintained) fren dialog t-spends
I have :) maintained workout t-spends
I have :) reined in tcost on pff
I have :) increased family time
I have increased the amount of rest including sleep
I have reduced library/movie trips
I have increased blogg (and other efforts) as self-care. As noted in the blogpost on I-statement, my type of blogging is not easy, not lazy, takes training and effort.

^^ Now I don't feel the burn [self-discipline, with materialistic gains]
My father, in his twilight years, would probably prefer quiet peaceful time,,, not burn.

Perhaps my current t-allocation is nearly /optimal/, based on the successE definition

-- ask grandpa
perhaps it would be more effective to develop some deep hobbies early in life, such as writing, playing music,,,
However, your mileage will vary, substantially.

-- fuxi: with cash flow, I constantly look out for ways to Reduce waste
with time usage, I constantly look out for ways to Increase productive use. 

Why the difference? You can't slow down or store the flow of time. You can only make better use (a bit more) of the 24H given to you each day.
 
--fuxi: during circuit breaker, family distraction is now a full-blown assault
I feel frustrated and disappointed many times a day.

* hardware breakdowns
* questions on everything in the house
* heated discussions on boy's PSLE. Real stress real strain. Real risk of affecting my work
* health conditions 
* frequent conflicts with grandma
* degradation of wellness
* degradation of concentration during work hours
* i often feel the need to go home early. But I should capture the localSys mood

I thought grandparents could reduce my distraction stemming from boy's studies, but I think this distractions is actually worsening. I probably have no one to blame but myself.

-- fuxi: if I continue to negelect workout, coding drill, QQ,,, for too long, __zsms__ would likely grow,
even though I put in more hours into my projects
even though I spend more time with grandparents
even though I spend more time with kids

I feel these t-spends are more important but doesn't meet my "burn" standard -- roti + self-discipline

weekend roti is a counter-productive concept esp. in terms of family time and babysitting boy -- high tcost low visible ROTI.
