-- new: parenting: minimum weekly dedicated hours 
I would say a lot of the parenting hours can be non-dedicated such as but not limited to multi-tasking.

Quality time is not all dedicted hours. Dedicted hours are not all quality time.

Q: what's the minimum amount of dedicated parenting time, given mother's dedication?
A: zero, as long as my kids are not in need of me.

Imagine a parent with 15 (including adopted) children. I think he can be an effective parent.

Some parents work 6 or 7 days a week, over long commute. They can be effective parents.

Personal experience: I had been working away for many years. 

Not spending a lot of dedicated hours with kids is not unacceptable. In fact face time is dangerous.

--new untitled
At my age and my level of ffree, why do I still worry about coblood waste, and too much idle time?

Time wasted in pain, or other unintended wastes of time are always regrettable and should be minimized. 

Planned down time (idle time) can be free of pain. 
To me, down time is a prolonged period of doing nothing, free of extraneous stimuations. Boredom can be good, as a BBC program reported.
I guess down time can be a deeper recharge but today I will assume this deeper recharge doesn't work for everyone.

I think down time is not bad for some retirees and some younger people. So far, I have limited appreciation for down time.  Jacob of ERE pointed out the "freedom TO" challenge. 90% of the time, I still have goals, and purposes and I still push myself towards them.

One growing purpose is the need to live longer for my kids. (Longevity requires long-term effort, practice and time.) I feel I can add value to their lives. If I live longer, I can better control my surplus assets and decide how to use it to help my children and possibly their children.

--new: % allocate spare time
See also blogpost on Luke Su and spare time accounting
First let me present my pratical (hopefully valuable) quantification of spare time: excluding required work time (+commute), essential family-support time (+repairs), bio-time (sleep, nutrition/preparation)
Second, let's name the top 5 non-overlapping allocations excluding the hard-to-estimate unused time. Note Blogging a "mixin" element.
* 20% per-finance. Am reducing it from 40%
* 20% parenting including seeking help. Am increasing it from 5%
* 20% workout + wellness research; tech xx including localSys + body-building
* 40% other blogging

If I put in more than 3 items, then I tend to spend too much time fine-tuning the estimates but these estimates are very not so useful in hind sight.

-- fuxi: with cash flow, I constantly look out for ways to Reduce waste
with time usage, I constantly look out for ways to Increase productive use. 

Why the difference? You can't slow down or store the flow of time. You can only make better use (a bit more) of the 24H given to you each day.
 
--fuxi: increase/reduce time allocation
= time playing with meimei including running.
^ jogging around the block or the park
^ mini-exercise downstairs + home or during trips with family
^ listening to grandpa and grandma
= boy's arithmetic drill - preparation
v boy's arithmetic drill - face time ... too high

= blogging to manage everything
v investment
v stadium, swimming, yoga studio - rewarding but tcost

^ proj and localSys xx? Capture i.e. increase if in the mood
v QQ + coding drill? Capture

boy's math: more research, more coaching less telling

--fuxi: during circuit breaker, family distraction is now a full-blown assault
I feel frustrated and disappointed many times a day.

* hardware breakdowns
* questions on everything in the house
* heated discussions on boy's PSLE. Real stress real strain. Real risk of affecting my work
* health conditions 
* frequent conflicts with grandma
* degradation of wellness
* degradation of concentration during work hours
* i often feel the need to go home early. But I should capture the localSys mood

I thought grandparents could reduce my distraction stemming from boy's studies, but I think this distractions is actually worsening. I probably have no one to blame but myself.

--if I continue to negelect workout, coding drill, QQ,,, for too long, zsms would likely grow,
fuxi:

even though I put in more hours into my projects
even though I spend more time with grandparents
even though I spend more time with kids

I feel these t-spends are more important but doesn't meet my "burn" standard -- roti + self-discipline

weekend roti is a counter-productive concept esp. in terms of family time and babysitting boy -- high tcost low visible ROTI.

--
Consider JackZ and Raymond's situations. At my age and (my economic) level, what endeavors (spaceshuttle name) are really strategic?
1) wellness lifestyle improvements like yoga, sustainable diet habits, BMI
2) dev-till-70 accu, plowback,,, including QQ and CIV
? academic parenting? No. I prioritize motivation, bonding, coaching 
? learn div-stock as diversification for my rental properties
? learn time-saving devices and techniques including commute, blogging

--new: ## important not urgent: current G3
c++ critical mass maintenance
bone density
flexibility 