-- update bpost on ... flexibility .. inferior
I have hypolordosis (reduced lumbar lordosis). I sometimes imagine that if I could surgically sever some connective tissue in my lower back, then I would be able to bend forward "like them".

However, whatever is too short in my lowerback is still vital for my body. I am grateful to that piece, when I can swim, cycle, climb stairs, jog, squat, twist, side-bend, sit-up...

-- update bpost on Dr Leow
early sleep .. boy's noise... light sleeper.
AA: bring boy to see me (Dr Leow). Late sleep can increase risk of heart attack in some patients.

It's safe to buy Crestor and Plavix in China.

My mom takes blood pressure daily. Yes she needs it. Do I need to buy a device to check at home? No

Q8: Was my progression so fast over 3 years? from zero to 50%? Perhaps not zero 3Y ago?
AA: correct. There could be some blockage in 2021.

Q8b: Will it continue at a slower pace if I take these medications? A: Yes!
Q8c: But slower pace still implies I may need stenting in a few years?
AA: possible. All depend on on periodic ESE results

Over 20Y horizon, stent failure rate is 10-20%, so 80%+ of stent patients don't need rework for 20Y+.

Q: Yoga and pilate workout can feel difficult (heavy breathing), but are they lighter than jumping exercises? 
AA: Yes

Do I need to learn how to recognize angina?
A: there are many angina symptoms including some minor discomfort
A: GTN not effective for me. Tablets like aspirin blood thinner are also unsuitable since it can backfire in some cases
%%A: I believe GTN and tablets are not needed for my current level of risk. For some reason, doctor won't put it that way.

Do I need to determine my max heart rate? No need. 90% of 170 is good

After checking my blood results and blood pressure, Dr Lew said that given my age, I will need stent in a number of years, but the longer we can safely put it off, the better, as stent technology will improve.

Is my sildenafil affected by the three drugs you prescribed? 
A: No. 
A: GTN + sildenafil is proven dangerous

Q: future CT results will need to be interpreted with this FFR report?
A: Standard CT will not be suitable.. wait for newer technology

Q: how do I monitor the build-up over next 10y?
A: ESE (exercise stress echo) every 2Y, or 1Y minimum
A: Standard treadmill test will give false positives.

What can I do about hypertension risk? I guess same as everyone else i.e. manage risk facctors

I have gastritis ... so some blood thinners are unsafe? 
AA: Even aspirin can be safe, if taken after (within 15m or with) meal

How do I watch out for liver damage due to Lipitor? 
AA: blood test every 6M

Is my blood pressure likely to rise? 
AA: yes but only due to aging, not stent

Q: will stent procedure leave the smaller plagues (below 50% blockage) untreated? Will they build up? Improvement is impossible.
AA: Scenario 1: doesn't build up over many years
AA: Sceanrio 2: worsening.. further intervention

How safe is chin-up, or push-up, skip-rope etc? AA: safe after wrist heals
How safe is climbing stairs and squat? AA: yes after 2 weeks
How safe is slow run up a small hill? AA: safe
How safe is 100m continuous swim? AA: safe
Most people need 30min of aerobic exercise 5 times a week... How aobut me? AA: same for me

grapefruit juice can interfere with statin but grape juice is safe

nuts and peanut-butter can be beneficial?
AA: eat in moderation. Better than fried or coated peanuts.

What causes do you see? 
AA: genetics + aging

For young men with family history, start checking cholesterol after 20.

Is atherectomy a safe option for me?
AA: higher risk. Good option when it's necessary (lesser of two evils) such as hardened plaque. 

Q: What if I miss 1 or 2 times a week?
AA: don't double up on the next day

Q: how do I know that work stress is actually affecting my heart health?
AA: chest tightness, short of breath while climbing even short stairs
Q: how about mild discomfort around the heart
AA: yes can be a sign

Q: competitive running/jogging .. fall at the end? Yes dangerous to the heart. Immediate medical attention required.
AA: Aim at endurance and don't sprint. Maintain pace. 
%%A: My younger-day habit of all-out sprint in the last lap is no longer safe at my age

Q: In early Apr, you told me my risk of heart attack is quite high so I need an angioplasty within a month. Is my risk profile improved so much that I don't need to constantly worry about heart attack?
A: After the angiogram, my risk of heart attack is below 1% within 1-2Y. Blockage is at most 50% despite what he wrote in the discharge summary.

Q: test for insulin in blood in addition to hbA1c, to guage my risk of diabetes?
A: no need

Q: EDyw since early 2023 .. could it be due to my plaque build-up?
A: possible, but any man above 45 has increased risk.

workout 
.. 20km without pushing to the limit? No recommended
.. can I train for JPM5600 2025? yes

Q: CoQ10 .. good for me if my mom asks me to try?
A: harmless but probably not needed given my medications

-- new or fuxi: Hui Mei consultation
sweet potato .. I think sweet potato is starchy therefore less suitable for BMI
.. high insoluble fiber, better than white rice

I love sweet taste in my congee. Is honey and date better than sugar?
.. yes they are better than white sugar
.. monk fruit and stevia are real sugar substitute. No known risk

honey .. not real sugar substitute. Not really healthier than white sugar. Commercial RnD?

I have a habit of adding raw veg to an otherwise unhealthy snack. In hindsight, am not sure if the veg neutralized the unhealthy elements
.. not neutralized

dinner timing. If I try to accomodate meimei's timing for math, then I may need to delay my dinner by 30-60 minutes. Worthwhile?
.. 10pm start OK if you can avoid 2h dinner

date+walnet snack .. not too bad

holiday feast .. warm soup first;  minimize starch; limit cakes to 6 pieces/meal (assuming regular size).
I was reluctant to set target, but now I can accept the idea.

After age 60, can aim for BMI=25, and maintain muscle mass.
BMI 21.x is very good for my age.
Going back to 63 kg .. probably not something to aim at.

T2dm is not reversible but can be controlled. Prediabetes is reversible.

Sep 2024 sugg: slightly more protein, for my resistance training, including toufu, milk,,, Good idea for lunch or dinner. More beneficial than adding starch

--fuxi
exercise around times when you know hunger tends to strike .. may help some individuals deal with hedonic hunger. 

Some types of exercise such as short intensse workout may suppress levels of hormones known to drive appetite.

-- fuxi: wear tighter pants to company buffet. You won't regret.
-- fuxi: atopic dermatitis
-- fuxi: Henry Lew suggestions:
Sugg 1: After seeing the home-cooked dinner, allocate a fixed portion for the night. Do not keep eating beyond that. 

Sugg 1b: Reduce allocation by 20%. The body and mind may not notice it.

Sugg 2: pre-emptive compensation .. Predict "night time compensation". If positive, then eat some starch (or whatever enticing food) before going home.
Then at home reduce the "allocation" by the pre-comp amount.

Sugg 3: when the craving starts, locate the part of the body. Then locate another part of the body that's comfortable. That makes a pair. Breathe in to the craving part, and breathe out to the comfort part.

Q: since what age did you start to notice appetite out of control
%%A: definitely before 30. Whenever I try to control my appetite, I would often find it hard to control.

Psychological inflexibility .. the behavior + the feeling follows one direction, but the control [self2 judge] is steering towards another direction. Conflict and loss of control. These negative consequences are not necessary. Controlled release/surrender can be beneficial.

-- fuxi: Whopper exprience @ TPY bus interchange
Price is much higher than the 山东大饼 or a hawker 杂菜饭. However, the dominant force needs to change from Price to nutrition. By customizing the cream level, whopper can be less oily than a lot of those foods.

Also, I have not tasted any beef burger for more than a year. Whopper is a premium version. The picture was enticing.

-- fuxi: Kegels for ED
Simplest, sustainable exericse?

-- fuxi or update bpost on bone/muscles
enviable BMI can come at disproportionate cost
* Older adults often need to fight, on their back heels, an uphill battle to retain muscles. Losing muscle can reduce your BMI but it also affects your metabolism rate
* amputation can reduce your BMI, but do you want that?
-- fuxi
By now, I have largely avoided the "magnetic field" of overweight.

Now, among the non-overweight, there is a high probability of muscle loss. I am good so far.

My bubble has yet to derail or puncture.
