-- fuxi: digital tech is used mostly for 1) entertainment 2) productive [work, edu, xx, transactions].
(Some usages are a mix of the two. For eg, news, shopp)
Kids can learn to differentiate and learn to move towards productive uses.

-- new: parent guidance=marginal effect
English spelling .. my teaching didn't seem to have got into his head 
BMI .. my advice did influence him
Renzi
piano

-- fuxi:
I asked meimei to give examples of a good time we spend together. She said
Playground, hide-n-seek, story cube, and race 

--fuxi: in benchmark exams, I tend to exaggerate the effect of effort... internal locus of control.
benchmark exam is an artificial world. very few surprises, compared to the natural world. Therefore, luck, relationships, ... are much less important.

--fuxi: US high school GPA system combines 4 years of exams vs a one-time exam for PSLE, gaokao or A-levels.
I feel GPA is better, but there's no standardized benchmark across the board.

--fuxi: too much^little homework
These are two risks. Each student has a risk profile. My son is more affected by the too-little-homework risk. He might lack time-management or self-motivation so he tends to lose his time.

Therefore, we could give him more enrichment programs to keep him busy. It would cost something but he has only up to 30 hours a week of spare time, so we won't spend $1k/wk on his enrichments

Many "experts" say that we need to train our children to be independt on studies. However, boy is not the independent type, not in my view

No tuition.. Let him struggle in class. we said that he needs to face the consequences. Now he is facing it but does he care?

--fuxi: I'm STILL trying to make dabao another tanbin
This tendency is very stubborn and subtle.

He has his own strengths, interests, hobbies, preferred way to solving problems and meeting challenges ....

I have my weaknesses, limitations, faults in my making. Over many years of "adjustment" I have come to terms with some of my limitations. Now I need to accept his limitations. 

Look at Genn. As a parent how would I accept her as she is, rather than a very lousy clone of me?

--no blog: wife's support is the key factor
Q: what are wife's goals and motivators?
A: health, 成绩，管得太累, hurtful remarks, 体重. 

Q: can you reduce your phone screen time and influence your son to do the same?

--new: David's suggestion: make stories together with him, to illustrate the direct link between current study effort and consequent enjoyment/satisfaction

--fuxi: jock itch, due to fungal
--fuxi: many primary school parents say "most students have similar IQ" but what's their sample? What's their criteria for 2 students being "similar"?
If you use an objective benchmark, then how many questions are easy and how many are advanced.

So statistically, such a statement is so extremely vague that it's nothing more than a sentiment.
--new: no good title: parental love and self-esteem
My dad and my mom don't point at someone like LuNuo or TaoYY and say I am less successful in my brank. I think they know, at their age and based on their wisdom, the drawbacks of "brank".  My dad doesn't even comment much about my branded degree or my relatively comfortable income. 

Now as I mellow up slowly, I think parental influence is crucial to my self-esteem, self-acceptance. The same will apply to the next generation.

Reality is, those things (brank, degree, big car etc) are exclub/FOMO/kiasu/vainity objects, often unnecessary, and never an essential element (like health, family) of a good life.

After the Kranji Wetland trip, at bedtime I told my son that when I chose his now mother as my bride, I was warned that my kids may not grow up to become academic kids. My son commented that he and his sister were not academic right now. I replied "the two of you may improve in secondary school or college, or after college." My son asked "what if I never become successful", without exploring the criteria of "success". 

I gave an illustration as an answer. "Your classmate XXX may end up earning 10k/M vs 2k/M in your case but you still can have a happy life". I asked him to work out 10k is 5 times higher than 2k.

I hope this goes down as a memorable conversation. Weeks before this conversation, I asked my son to think about excellence.

I want him to strive for excellence. He is definitely able to achieve some excellence in some domain, but even if a guy didn't find that domain and didn't achieve excellence, the process of striving and the effort, would define him. I think there are some examples, but these are probably the minority. The majority of guys who strive for excellence would achieve it somewhere. 

Excellence means exceeding the current personal limits and parents', colleagues' or other individuals' expectation of us. Traditionally, excellence also means reaching heights defined by external standards but i don't emphasize that meaning as it is often a by-product of accumulation. I feel it's best to focus on personal excellence.

Just don't settle for mediocrity.

After I told Grandpa about the bedtime conversation, he delivered a shocking reminder that income should NOT be a criteria for a blessed life (幸福). He said something similar to Raymond's words "What if you earn the typical [1] Singaporean family's income? Can't you live a good life in Singapore?" 

[1] I would use the median as a criteria. If your family income is above the median, then you are better than 50% of the Singapore families.

This gives me another motivation for healthy longevity -- if my son's income is below average, then I want to hang around to help him. 

--fuxi:
Imagine a Chinese guy speaking broken English in Singapore or New York. Dismissed and discounted by everyone, but when it comes to driving, he is very skillful, because .... because driving doesn't require Enlgish.

Another example is math, which doesn't require English skill. 

My son is not strong in theoretical domains (similar to broken English), but he may prove his GTD abilities on a real job. Those who discount him would be surprise, perhaps upset.

-- new: parenting: minimum weekly dedicated hours 
I would say a lot of the parenting hours can be non-dedicated such as but not limited to multi-tasking.

Quality time is not all dedicted hours. Dedicted hours are not all quality time.

Q: what's the minimum amount of dedicated parenting time, given mother's dedication?
A: zero, as long as my kids are not in need of me.

Imagine a parent with 15 (including adopted) children. I think he can be an effective parent.

Some parents work 6 or 7 days a week, over long commute. They can be effective parents.

Personal experience: I had been working away for many years. 

Not spending a lot of dedicated hours with kids is not unacceptable. In fact face time is dangerous.

--update blogposts on hib: immigration plan change
I am overly pessimistic about my son's judgement, self-control, risk of drug influence. His self-esteem and self-confidence may go lower because of my parenting attitude and manifestation through my words

Overprotective parenting -- against bad influence in U.S. youth culture. I tend to see my son as completely defenseless, lacking basic judgement.  I have a basically black/white view -- U.S. dangerous; SG safe. In fact, SG environment also has bad influences... When I came to SG from China I experienced lots of stress.

I need to accept the risk(s) of each choice I make. 

Counsellor pointed out the heavy PIP stress in my job would affect my parenting and therefore my kids!

--fuxi doubling penalty might be too  severe

--fuxi: boy said his #1 favorite food is chips, so let's research with him on calorie density (and also other nutritions) in this and other foods

--fuxi: 
Some strong students suffer when they move to a top school and find themselves at the bottom. I think I had that experience in my physics Olympiad training camp at Grade 10.

--fuxi: counselling :
Consider white noise apps like Tide to block out the screaming. Use earphone if needed.

--fuxi: Ask boy "How do your classmates study?"

--Ms Goh said "for the tough wordy problem techniques, leave to school teachers", but I guess they also hit the same resistance
缺乏信心， 缺乏愿望
只想达到最低标准， 所以不求甚解， 懒得动脑子找规律
就算我把规律讲清楚了， 就算他听懂了这个规律，他也不想多学一丁点

--fuxi: does he ever find the "checklist" useful against careless mistakes?
If not, he won't use it in exam.

If he doesn't care enough about losing the marks, then he won't bother with the checklist.

Before his next math sheet, ask him "What common mistakes do you tend to make?" Ask him to write it on a sticker. Then after he finishes the sheet, ask him to check each question.

The process of conceiving the checklist and using it is conscious and active learning.

--fuxi: right now I spend X hours a week on boy's math. If I now spend 0.2X hours looking at his results on the easy problems, I don't really help him but it would boost my perception of him as my son.
--fuxi jolt: boy is skilled at solving some wordy problems without equations
I too excelled at this game in my grade 6

This is a strength, a real strength.

The equation method is actually easier and he will learn it in due course.

--gr8idea: at most one problem per weekday night
and must start by 9pm

Problem -- lack of motivation. He only wants me to help him finish the homework. Not keen to learn the pattern recognition.

--fuxi: jolt
Why is XR (or anyone in his shoes) so fixated on the expert diagnosis? YH keeps testing his son's IQ? Subconsciously we take it as a court judgement.

In reality, a grade-A academic child can become mediocre in college or professionally, while a grade-C child can turn out rather decent.


--fuxi: email to grandparents
我的同学有好几个拒绝学英语， 更多的同学讨厌政治，或历史， 或语文。 这些同学后来成绩也没有那么糟糕。 都及格了。 

这几科大都是中学科目。 12 岁以上。

得过且过，尽量少吃苦，这种学习态度，挺常见的。 but I feel these students still can overcome their laziness once a while.

也听说有的孩子拒绝完成作业, esp. in the west。 


--fuxi: new: renzi coaching effort: review
With renzi, for 2 years I had a steady and clear focus (not fixated on benchmark). Clearly better than other parents. 

Still, one crucial missing link -- xxxq. He didn't want to apply his mind.

Now in 2019, my son's renzi is much better than I feared. (By the way, he is also stronger than half of his classmates, but not my focus.) 
Yet, using result to judge my effort can be very unfair and discouraging. 
Result implies measurement against some yardstick, and it implies some expectation.
Perhaps my effort was good and helpful, but due to lack of xxxq, his progress was slower than expected.

--fuxi: somehow, my face time pain is only with his wordy problems.
Losing my cool is only with his wordy problems
his feet-dragging, low confidence ,,, is only with wordy problems.

--fuxi jolt: Shanyou is deeply disappointed with his son's college -- lower branding relative to the peers
I (and my wife) am similarly disappointed with my son's benchmark performance.

--fuxi: boy's multiplication is slow by my standard, but is faster than his classmates in the 6.5 class.

Capture his pride as a motivation.

--fuxi jolt: my renzi effort was huge but roti was .. small
.. but boy is now able to read a lot of Chinese books. Perhaps delayed compared to some kids, but much better than I feared, and miles ahead of U.S. kids.

The pleasant surprise was due to the school not me.

--fuxi jolt: I have a prejudice against correction tape

--fuxi jolt: I hoped that he would put up with practice to avoid more practice, but does anyone do that? Practice would be seen as a very negative experience.

--fuxi: the expert advice frowns upon all of the below
smashing is much safer than yelling or physical punishment

smacking the buttock is safer than throwing at a sibling

throwing soft toy is safer than throwing hard, heavy or sharp objects.

--fuxi jolt: Rahul's father (and Yinghui's father) always puts him down, becasue the kid is doing very well in school.

My son is lagging behind, so why I'm saying negative things? Because he doesn't care, and because I want him to feel the pain that I'm feeling.

--fuxi jolt: I may appear to be too harsh to boy compared to meimei.
I could defend myself saying that meimei is self-driven and shows absorbency, but to some observers (perhaps GP or boy himself), this may look like double-standard.

Need to be more harsh to meimei, but always with a valid reason.

I praise meimei more and more, but scold boy more and more !

-- fuxi: Cigna counselor chat
my anger towards boy is rather impulsive (irrational). I tend to attribute "all my pains" to this boy, when the real reason is my own reaction.

Remember DeepakG's words? 

The biggest risk is harm to him (also to myself), and to our bond. In a way, I need to always keep that risk in mind.

anger mgmt !

-- smacking and shouting
https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2018/feb/04/we-shout-at-and-smack-our-children-how-can-we-stop

--fuxi: sign@sabotage by dabao
What would be a real sabotage of daddy's coaching effort? How about passive resistance?
How would a dicerning parent decide when to give up?

If not dicerning enough, then I would hit bitter contention, painful disappointment, wheel-spinning, self-hate, regretable ROTI, losing my cool

--fuxi: 
Q: $25 basketball paid too much?

The basketball buying experience is probably one of the defining experiences.
The main (perhaps implicit) message I sent across is -- If you are going to xi3xin1yan4jiu4, then we can only spend a small amount. If you are going to keep this basketball for a long time, then we can spend a little more. 
I think he got the message, even though he may not use it frquently.
My estimate of that "frequency" is emotionally biased and unreliable.
Therefore, my answr to Q1 is also biased.

--fuxi: lost my cool. In hind sight, I did notice it and briefly considered leaving the scene but I felt that would be a defeat of a parent by a child!

Actually boy had already conceded once and agreed to listen to me showing him my method, but in the end he was "punished" as a result.... and feeling cheated.

I did raise my voice many times,,, a sign of losing my cool.

For a moment, I wanted to hit him or smash something (better than a smack),,, a sign of losing my cool.

Self-awareness is my key strength. Compared to other guys, I am better able to step out of myself and observe the person.

I need to recognize my limitation as a father and coach. One of the biggest limitations is losing my cool.
If and when I acknowledge my limitation, I should get help.

When hitting boy, it's important to have another parent present. Boy and I were both lucky that grandparents were around, to help maintain a balance, which is very much needed when I lose my cool but continue to engage in confrontational facetime.

Word problems with fractions are the toughest for boy. He would need to apply his mind and persevere

--fuxi: boy experiences a lot of internal resistance to math practice esp pattern recog in wordy problems
I also experience the same with chin-up, stretching..

If no choice due to strict rule from dad, then not so much suffering and resistance.

Self-discipline without external help is harder.