--fuxi: 
Some strong students suffer when they move to a top school and find themselves at the bottom. I think I had that experience in my physics Olympiad training camp at Grade 10.

--fuxi: counselling :
Consider white noise apps like Tide to block out the screaming. Use earphone if needed.

--fuxi: Ask boy "How do your classmates study?"

--Ms Goh said "for the tough wordy problem techniques, leave to school teachers", but I guess they also hit the same resistance

缺乏信心， 缺乏愿望
只想达到最低标准， 所以不求甚解， 懒得动脑子找规律
就算我把规律讲清楚了， 就算他听懂了这个规律，他也不想多学一丁点

--fuxi: does he ever find the "checklist" useful against careless mistakes?
If not, he won't use it in exam.

If he doesn't care enough about losing the marks, then he won't bother with the checklist.

Before his next math sheet, ask him "What common mistakes do you tend to make?" Ask him to write it on a sticker. Then after he finishes the sheet, ask him to check each question.

The process of conceiving the checklist and using it is conscious and active learning.

--fuxi: gr8idea: take-up-for-fun
My assumption -- he has lost the basic skills. Pushing him hard will be ineffective.

温和地坚持

On the other hand, he probably needs more perseverance. He has a tendency to give up and puts in fake effort

Note Take-up-for-fun involves (confrontational?) facetime and can create pain (frustration/regret/losing-cool) in me, despite the 'for-fun' slogan.

Biggest problem -- insufficient motivation

--fuxi: right now I spend X hours a week on boy's math. If I now spend 0.2X hours looking at his results on the easy problems, I don't really help him but it would boost my perception of him as my son.
--fuxi jolt: boy is skilled at solving some wordy problems without equations
I too excelled at this game in my grade 6

This is a strength, a real strength.

The equation method is actually easier and he will learn it in due course.

--gr8idea: at most one problem per weekday night
and must start by 9pm

Problem -- lack of motivation. He only wants me to help him finish the homework. Not keen to learn the pattern recognition.

--jolt:
when I criticize boy's unnecessary spend on fancy subway sandwich, I should remember my own "unnecessary" lunch-after-lunch.

Note boy's sandwich is relatively healthy by his standard.

I told a counselor that I would tell the 11 year old tanbin that "no one is perfect or powerful. Everyone of us is weak."

--fuxi: jolt: when criticizing kids on piano effort, remember their current effort level is already substantial.
piano demands a commitment


--fuxi: jolt
Why is XR (or anyone in his shoes) so fixated on the expert diagnosis? YH keeps testing his son's IQ? Subconsciously we take it as a court judgement.

In reality, a grade-A academic child can become mediocre in college or professionally, while a grade-C child can turn out rather decent.

--fuxi: I said boy's top priority is gaming, but he said he always finishes his homework first before gaming.

Each time he has a valid argument, I really need to listen and respond to his argument without too much emotion and bias. Also I need to ackknowledge the limitations in my arguments. 

--fuxi: email to grandparents
我的同学有好几个拒绝学英语， 更多的同学讨厌政治，或历史， 或语文。 这些同学后来成绩也没有那么糟糕。 都及格了。 

这几科大都是中学科目。 12 岁以上。

得过且过，尽量少吃苦，这种学习态度，挺常见的。 but I feel these students still can overcome their laziness once a while.

也听说有的孩子拒绝完成作业。 

--fuxi: jolt: if without the bmark crisis
I wouldn't see his arithmetic weakness created by years of neglect
I wouldn't say he is so lazy. Perhaps he is more motivated than many kids of another country.
I wouldn't see his poor clarity of thinking and pattern recognition
I wouldn't feel so negative about his tech career

--fuxi: jolt: I fuss over dabao's 1) pattern recognition in wordy problems 2) silly time mgmt 3) overweight ,,, but there are far worse problems at his age.
Do you rather have a sick kid?

Do you rather have a liar kid or stealing kid?

Do you rather have a violent kid inclined to abuse a sibling or attack other kids?

--new: boy said"Don't come home]afternoon"
boy has a point: if i don't come home during lunch break, and instead spend my time in some forgettable way, then i won't feel so disappointed.

The fact that boy is not so competitive at graded exams should not be used as a whip to beat myself up for my decisions to spend time coaching him.

Somehow am not celebrating every small improvement in boy. 

Need to make him see that dad's bar is not too high.

--fuxi: new: renzi coaching effort: review
With renzi, for 2 years I had a steady and clear focus (not fixated on benchmark). Clearly better than other parents. 

Still, one crucial missing link -- xxxq. He didn't want to apply his mind.

Now in 2019, my son's renzi is much better than I feared. (By the way, he is also stronger than half of his classmates, but not my focus.) 
Yet, using result to judge my effort can be very unfair and discouraging. 
Result implies measurement against some yardstick, and it implies some expectation.
Perhaps my effort was good and helpful, but due to lack of xxxq, his progress was slower than expected.

--fuxi: somehow, my face time pain is only with his wordy problems.
Losing my cool is only with his wordy problems
his feet-dragging, low confidence ,,, is only with wordy problems.

--fuxi jolt: Shanyou is deeply disappointed with his son's college -- lower branding relative to the peers
I (and my wife) am similarly disappointed with my son's benchmark performance.

--fuxi: boy's multiplication is slow by my standard, but is faster than his classmates in the 6.5 class.

Capture his pride as a motivation.

--fuxi jolt: my renzi effort was huge but roti was .. small
.. but boy is now able to read a lot of Chinese books. Perhaps delayed compared to some kids, but much better than I feared, and miles ahead of U.S. kids.

The pleasant surprise was due to the school not me.

--fuxi jolt: I have a prejudice against correction tape

--fuxi jolt: I hoped that he would put up with practice to avoid more practice, but does anyone do that? Practice would be seen as a very negative experience.

--fuxi: the expert advice frowns upon all of the below
smashing is much safer than yelling or physical punishment

smacking the buttock is safer than throwing at a sibling

throwing soft toy is safer than throwing hard, heavy or sharp objects.

--fuxi jolt: Rahul's father (and Yinghui's father) always puts him down, becasue the kid is doing very well in school.

My son is lagging behind, so why I'm saying negative things? Because he doesn't care, and because I want him to feel the pain that I'm feeling.

--fuxi jolt: I may appear to be too harsh to boy compared to meimei.
I could defend myself saying that meimei is self-driven and shows absorbency, but to some observers (perhaps GP or boy himself), this may look like double-standard.

Need to be more harsh to meimei, but always with a valid reason.

I praise meimei more and more, but scold boy more and more !

-- fuxi: Cigna counselor chat
my anger towards boy is rather impulsive (irrational). I tend to attribute "all my pains" to this boy, when the real reason is my own reaction.

Remember DeepakG's words? 

The biggest risk is harm to him (also to myself), and to our bond. In a way, I need to always keep that risk in mind.

anger mgmt !

-- smacking and shouting
https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2018/feb/04/we-shout-at-and-smack-our-children-how-can-we-stop

--fuxi: sign@sabotage by dabao
What would be a real sabotage of daddy's coaching effort? How about passive resistance?
How would a dicerning parent decide when to give up?

If not dicerning enough, then I would hit bitter contention, painful disappointment, wheel-spinning, self-hate, regretable ROTI, losing my cool

--fuxi: boy enjoys board game without being very good. but it is a better past time than screens
I was never good at any board game, 

--fuxi: should we remind him of the secondary school he picked?
Is he feeling any motivation? Perhaps non-zero
I need to be extremely careful not to turn it into negative motivation or ridicule

--fuxi: 
Q: $25 basketball paid too much?

The basketball buying experience is probably one of the defining experiences.
The main (perhaps implicit) message I sent across is -- If you are going to ????, then we can only spend a small amount. If you are going to keep this basketball for a long time, then we can spend a little more. 
I think he got the message, even though he may not use it frquently.
My estimate of that "frequency" is emotionally biased and unreliable.
Therefore, my answr to Q1 is also biased.

I too believe the first few versions of anything we buy are only for trying out. However in this case, we bought three previous versions -- way too high.

--fuxi: lost my cool. In hind sight, I did notice it and briefly considered leaving the scene but I felt that would be a defeat of a parent by a child!

Actually boy had already conceded once and agreed to listen to me showing him my method, but in the end he was "punished" as a result.... and feeling cheated.

I did raise my voice many times,,, a sign of losing my cool.

For a moment, I wanted to hit him or smash something (better than a smack),,, a sign of losing my cool.

Self-awareness is my key strength. Compared to other guys, I am better able to step out of myself and observe the person.

I need to recognize my limitation as a father and coach. One of the biggest limitations is losing my cool.
If and when I acknowledge my limitation, I should get help.

When hitting boy, it's important to have another parent present. Boy and I were both lucky that grandparents were around, to help maintain a balance, which is very much needed when I lose my cool but continue to engage in confrontational facetime.

Word problems with fractions are the toughest for boy. He would need to apply his mind and persevere

--fuxi
big idea -- behaviors that generate unpredicable rewards would quickly become habits.

This is at brain level, and proven in animals too.

--fuxi: boy experiences a lot of internal resistance to math practice esp pattern recog in wordy problems
I also experience the same with chin-up, stretching and coding drill

If no choice due to strict rule from dad, then not so much suffering and resistance.

Self-discipline without external help is harder.