-- fuxi or ...
BBC program on intermittent fasting features many researcher who practice intermittent fasting. However, if a research paper uses a sample size of one, then the research has zero statistical significance.

The researcher himself obviously believes it, but that doesn't mean the practice is safe for all healthy adults.

-- fuxi or update bpost on diet/workout
Lesson learned from NY2024
small ice creams, small cakes worked better for BMI and waste reduction, even though higher unit cost. The pistachio cake was way too big.

I chose to relax my "delay meal" rule again (relaxed frequently in SG like company meals, family meals...) because it was impractical at that time. As HuiMei said, I need quality of life.

-- fuxi:
99% of foods advertized in mass media are calorie-dense by my standard -- high starch (#1 most common), high fat (#2 most common) [creamy]

I basically rely on Sys2 to ignore and avoid those attention grabbers, but Sys1 would be drawn to them automatically.

-- fuxi: compensation when coming home
when I come home from office, I look forward to (expectation of) a reward for the sacrifices, an unwinding of the strict control 
I feel I deserve some comfort food.

It feels too harsh to deny myself of the comfort foods.

Luckily I don't demand starch or fattty comfort foods. Fancy fruits are fine.

It is a sign of good appetite for relatively healthy foods. You don't want get rid of this appetite, do you? What you want to get rid of is the unexpected food

-- fuxi: tCost@diet introspection
I think this analysis is less reading more experimenting, and comparable to 

coding drill

mufu picking + stock picking 

renzi experiments with boy

-- fuxi: yoyo diet
Even a temporary weight improvement is no mean achievement.

Simiarly, a high score for my son's math is no mean achievement even if his scores revert to previous levels.

-- fuxi or update the blog of buffets
today's (late Jun) Chinatown lunch is famliar. Hopefully my past experience help me improve.

Better than home cooking in terms of unlimited quantity. 3 out of 4 dishes have limited quantity. At home, generally the quantity is higher.

rice .. I had a controlled indulgence. In the next few days I will reflect. There will be very limited evidence, so I may not have enough of a rational reason to change my behavior.

leftovers .. at home, I finished some of the leftovers without rice :)

street food + YueHwa .. thanks to my full stomach (https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/2021/05/02/fullnessavailability-hunger/), I didn't buy any :) Buying would lead to "obligation". So a "controlled indulgence" is a double-edged sword with unforeseen ramification.

-- fuxi
I have tried Ikea cafe food more than 10 times. I think it's slightly healthier than average. 
Obviously, at every restaurant, your personal choice of foods is the deciding factor. Ikea tends to offer more varieties of relatively healthy choices.

Still, I believe "reasonable" self-disciple in this context is simply insufficient. Your nutrional balance is probably reasonable, but there would be too much fat and insufficient vegetables. The overall cCost would be too high.

I think majority of attractive foods are similar. It's rare to find attractive yet healthy foods. 

-- fuxi: knowing that BMI is not that critical when your nutrional mix is excellent, I still want to ask
Q: is it possible to put on weight by eating lots of carrots, and other raw veg + fruits?
A: I don't think so. In theory, possible, but I seriously doubt it.

I think the amount of meat, starch and fat might be underestimated.

-- fuxi
many foods are advertised as "healthy" for no reason beside a trace amount of omega3 oil, or heart-healthy oil, or antioxidant or some fiber
The marketing propaganda exaggerates those small ingredients and say nothing about the excess amount of oil, sugar, animal fat, etc

-- fuxi
Cocacola and other beverage vendors have worked for decades to improve the appeal of sugar-free products.

I think most people still find those drinks inferior and not much better than water.

I think Colacola is trying to keep the customer hooked...

Most cusomers would buy the sugar-free version once a while, and buy the sugary version most of the time. The sugar-free version makes the customer less likely to detract.

