
-- fuxi
India lacks world class universities, but I have met many very smart Indian colleagues.

To some extent, the same can be said about Korea

-- [22] fuxi or ..
UChicago is the #1 university outside the east and west coasts. Here are a few more.
Northwestern
Vanderbilt
Rice

The busienss schools, law schools and medical schools have separate national rankings. UChicago has top-ranked business school and law school, both comparable to Harvard.

-- [23] fuxi or slow cooking update https://btv-open.dreamhosters.com/109/college-global-ranktables-greaterchninhkau/
After listening to congcong situation, my focus shifted to "howLuckyIWasAsStudent" .. lucky and confident

I feel the China gaokao system is a ruthless pyramid with poor upward mobility -- 

* stratification among colleges has probably increased (985/211) due to 扩招. Even though some 2nd/3rd tier college graduates do become "successful" (successC), parents and the society at large ignore them as statistical outliers
* top high schools have a near "supply monopoly" to top colleges

In China middle schools, if you want top collge, then your chance is low if you don't get into a top high school. Average high schools seldom produce such strong candidates for gaokao. I went though high school system myself and I know it. I also confirmed with a few China friends.
In China high schools, if you want a top college, then you must work hard for 3 years.

In Singapore, many average high schools (JC or poly) can produce candidates for NUS/NTU.

Per 1000 high school graduates, I think "elite tertiary edu resources" are more scarce in China than in Singapore.

-- [23] fuxi: fixation on high school ranking]China
China gaokao is an objective, nation-wide benchmark, usable as a benchmark to rank thousands of high schools. Usable doesn't mean "meaningful", but the ranking (esp. within a city) is a constant fixation among parents.

Q: Why rank universities by the research output including prizes? Because universities exist to conduct research and guide public decision making. Research impact is a //yardstick of excellence and value-creation.

Q: Why rank unviersities by graduate employment [employer recognition, outstanding alumni,,,]? Because universities exist to groom young, productive knowledge-workers.

Universities build and polish their brands over decades, and use their brands to attract students, employer roadshows, staff, researchers/research-funding, donation,,, 
As in any domain, university brands compete for mind share. 

Do these factor apply to high schools? Partially. For example, it's rarely meaningful to benchmark high schools internationally, using pseudo-benchmarks like math Olympiad.

In the China high school landscape, the only real ranking criteria is benchmark result. This kinda ranking is highly emotive and over-emphasized, a national obsession. In many families, the obsession stems from parents' worry over "average high school" that usually means "no chance to a top college" like a 985/211 college.

Branding generates an emotional response among alumni, and a personal motivation to boost a alma-mater's ranking. 

Among my peers, the facination motivates us to monitor my alma-mater's ranking ... a recreational energy-sink.
-- "fuxi x 2" means Dram refreshed twice