Hi YH,
In one of last calls in 2021, you mentioned an unnamed friend worth $3.5M
Suppose you are in his shoes, with the same net asset, but you reconnect with an ex-classmate, now worth 3 times higher.

Q1: How would you feel in that situation? 

I think many people in that situation would feel "I wish I have that 3x wealth.", even though the current wealth is already very, very high. 
Our aspirations won't stop growing when we hit a certain net asset level. 
Our aspirations are mostly guided by peer comparison. At net asset USD 2M, you (and most of our peers) are many times above the U.S. median household wealth, but our "peer" group is 50 times wealthier than the U.S. median! So we are really comparing with a peer group of the ultra rich.

A side note on "ultra rich" -- About 10 years ago, I read a Malaysian magazine. 
The Malaysia benchmark for Ultra high net worth was MYR 10,000k = USD 2,400k. 
Malaysia is among the top 10 richest countries in Asia if you exclude tiny nations like Qatar, Brunei, Bahrain, Kuwait.

My personal answer to Q1, as hinted in our last call -- "With 3.5M, I already have enough. I don't need 3 times more."  I say this even though I don't have 3.5M. A basic Taoist (and Buddhist) view. This is part of traditional Chinese culture we grew up in, and nothing academic.

Right now in 2024, I would give the same answer to Q1, though I'm not $3.5M rich, not even close. Suppose I receive $5M extra money when I migrate to the U.S. the extra money would enable me to hire a maid + professional tutors, buy a home rather than renting, and enroll my kids to private schools, and buy a good car.

But Hey, I don't really NEED any of these, not in Singapore, and not in the U.S. 

At our age, each of us, based on our individual circumstances, can draw a line in the sand, between livelihood needs vs aspirations. Those aspirations lie beyond the line because these aspirations are luxuries, dreams, fantasies, whims, not necessities for a reasonable livelihood. I think my dad would say the same to me. (He has advocated renting, average school districts.)

I wrote "aspirations won't stop growing", that is, until we say NO to mindless peer comparison, and draw that line in the sand. This is hard, as hard as practicing Buddhism on a daily basis, that's why most people's aspirations won't stop growing. They would still struggle under pressure even when their net asset and income is a few times the national median. I still struggle with other things like parenting or anxiety, but I don't feel that I struggle to make ends meet.

I try to follow this invisible line in the sand. I think that's how I can *feel* well-off and carefree while others struggle. It's hard to convince anyone I'm truly well-off, but I will mention a few minor points (like evidence):

* I have walked away from higher job offers more than 5 times, and will continue to do so.
* my wife stopped working in 2019. In a way, we don't need her salary. 
* Every month the unspent salary income I squirrel away is 2-3 times our monthly burn rate including insurance premiums, property tax and Singapore income tax.
* in 2018-2019, I chose to live in Bayonne so my current plan is -- when I bring my family over, we stay as a renter family in Bayonne. No home ownership in a top school district.
* my kids don't need to attend top colleges. My father said a U.S. community college (or better) would be good for my son.
* Most of my peers have a car, but I insist that a car is not needed. Our livelihood doesn't require a private car.

-- parenting aspirations
I think many people subscribe to a belief that more financial resources would produce a better child. I guess the correlation is rather weak. I can throw more "help" on my kids and they would not become top of the class. The top students in the class are someone else, not necessarily from a rich family. Beyond a certian limit, more financial "help" is not needed. 

Even for a bright child, the limiting factor is usually his own abilities and motivation, not financial resources.

However, I do notice the clear pattern that well-off families tend to produce better students than low-income families. Granted, financial resources can give our children the best schools and teachers, but that's a minor factor IMHO. Financial resources can "buy" earlier intervention, more parenting care and attention, and better healthcare for the child. In my observation, most successful people didn't come from top schools. In fact after the child becomes a young adult, around age 18, the schools and companies she gets into depends mostly on her choices and her abilities, less on her family wealth.

One speial case is organized annual competitions for students. Those competitions require expensive training over many years, so the correlation between a student's result and his family financial resources is higher. Well, I'm not interested in those competitions. They are aspirations, not a livelihood requirement.
