--fuxi: DCA assumes long-term strength of US stocks
This strength is evident only in US stocks, and not in Nsdq. 
DCA in Singapore stocks ... questionable.
Without this strength, your DCA could underperform "holding cash forever"

The "long term" should match your xjlCrunch. In many geographical equity markets, the long-term "strength" can require 30Y of patient wait.

-- fuxi
buy-n-forget is not so easy with the bond mufu. The expRatio (1%?) erodes the low return. 
I may need to babysit my positions !

When I read books on sREIT, I remember the AMB effort.. the differences in terms of reluctance.

I recall that when I was told stock picking requires reading financial statements, I balked. Then in 2020 I developed my 3-min due diligence. 

It turned out that zero commission and fractional investing removed the bulk of the burden/reluctance/drudgery of due diligence.

-- fuxi:
night trading is now competing for priority with my family time, household chores.. I think it's not worthwhile.

-- fuxi: U.S.eq=more reliable than SDB mufu
In 2021, I have come to understand some truths about SDB mufu.

These funds generate less than 2% pa in normal years, much lower than U.S.eq.

The expRatio is usually more than 0.3%, much worse than U.S. ETF or Rbh (0% upfront+trailer) 

In a down turn, the trough can last months (12M is conveivable), exacerbated by the expRatio.

-- fuxi: y U.S.stock investors are typically 80% concentrated in U.S.
Perhaps update an existing blogpost (https://tanbinvest.dreamhosters.com/10065/conviction-us-market-beats-other-regional-markets-over-short-long-term/), and create an alias

All non-US eq investors hold a substantial U.S. exposure, but not conversely.
I think diversification ideas were popular among U.S. investors too, like buying more Asia stocks. I think results speak louder than theory.

Many successful American companies already derive bulk of the profit from overseas.

There are also many ADRs available in the U.S.

-- fuxi or update post on U.S. eq market strength
jolt: China is the growing economic superpower, rivaling U.S., but in terms of stocks potential, it lacks all of the power, trec, market support that's available to U.S. stocks.

SG, Germany, Australia ... also have strong, competitive economies but lack the same strengths of the U.S. stock market.

-- fuxi
conventional wisdom of eq outperforming bonds in the long run only works in the U.S. market and only if you don't pay the expRatio to a eqMufu.

U.S. eq annualized return is about 6% in recent years, vs 3% for long bonds. With 2% exp ratio, the gap is much much smaller.

-- fuxi:
"revenue can't really be manipulated, so it is often a truer performance indicator." according to https://finance.yahoo.com/news/china-life-lfc-great-value-165004399.html.

I think book value is also less manipulated including assets and liabilities.

Profits i.e. earnings, dividends are all easier to manipulate by accountants.

-- fuxi: Now is the 2nd or 3rd period of "active research"
t_xxAsRecreation
Last time was eq mufu. In hindsight, I didn't learn a lot. Actually, I was not able to. The mufu funds are almost opaque and rigid. I couldn't follow my views on individual companies. 

-- fuxi
Shareholders usually want a steady stream of increasing dividends from the company. And one of the goals of company executives is to maximize shareholder wealth. 

--fuxi:
Q (for every equity investor): if there's a new 5Y-bond offered at par, what coupon rate would be as attractive as your favorite growth stock?

A: 6% for me
