The original police officer may or may not be there on court date. Need to be (not "act", not "show") honest to him.

interpreter may help and is harmless. Interpreter can use the language familiar to the judge/prosecutor.

On court, better control your emotion. It usually works against you.

In front of law enforcement, always show your hands and avoid abrupt movements, as they react to any sign of guns

At this juncture, it's probably effective to reassure myself that worst comes to worst I will end up with this petty criminal record, but in most cases i would get a chance to explain how minor it actually is. 战略上藐视它， 战术上重视它

Paperwork -- just the ticket. I will bring my statement.

--simple (easy-to-understand) argument:
police officer told me to get off tracks. Fastest way is forward, but he told me to turn back and climb up without stairs. What am i supposed to do?

less-simple - Whether I walk forward or back, he could say I refused to get off the tracks. That's unfair.

--simple argument:
no signs.. why is it a crime to get on the tracks? It's unsafe and my mistake to get down to active tracks but why is it crime?

--two things I did right in court room 6
1) insisted on interpreter. So the re-scheduling became extra legwork for the court employees. It prompted them to re-assess if it's worthwhile. 

2) The full-screen picture I showed on my laptop was convincing. It shows, beyond doubt, that the tracks had no trespass sign. The prosecutor understood that it was common misunderstanding to take the light rail tracks as walkable. 

Usually the decision maker is the judge who listens to both sides (prosecutor vs defendant) and makes a verdict. In this case, key decision maker was the prosecutor who represents the state of New Jersey. His judgment call to dismiss the charge without even listening to the policeman. He explained to judge his justification for his decision. Judge kinda approved his decision.

I think the prosecutor saw my offense as trespass, not really defiant trespass. 

I believe judge would not approve prosecutor's decision if it were a fare evasion offense. My offense was not that bad. I think I won their sympathy.
