-- new or fuxi: Hui Mei consultation
sweet potato .. I think sweet potato is starchy therefore less suitable for BMI
.. high insoluble fiber, better than white rice

I love sweet taste in my congee. Is honey and date better than sugar?
.. yes they are better than white sugar
.. monk fruit and stevia are real sugar substitute. No known risk

honey .. not real sugar substitute. Not really healthier than white sugar. Commercial RnD?

I have a habit of adding raw veg to an otherwise unhealthy snack. In hindsight, am not sure if the veg neutralized the unhealthy elements
.. not neutralized

dinner timing. If I try to accomodate meimei's timing for math, then I may need to delay my dinner by 30-60 minutes. Worthwhile?
.. 10pm start OK if you can avoid 2h dinner

date+walnet snack .. not too bad

holiday feast .. warm soup first;  minimize starch; limit cakes to 6 pieces/meal (assuming regular size).
I was reluctant to set target, but now I can accept the idea.

After age 60, can aim for BMI=25, and maintain muscle mass.
BMI 21.x is very good for my age.
Going back to 63 kg .. probably not something to aim at.

T2dm is not reversible but can be controlled. Prediabetes is reversible.

Sep 2024 sugg: slightly more protein, for my resistance training, including toufu, milk,,, Good idea for lunch or dinner. More beneficial than adding starch
--fuxi
exercise around times when you know hunger tends to strike .. may help some individuals deal with hedonic hunger. 
Some types of exercise such as short intensse workout may suppress levels of hormones known to drive appetite.
-- fuxi: heart attack is formally known as AMI (Acute Myocardial Infarction)
-- fuxi: atopic dermatitis
-- fuxi: Henry Lew suggestions:
Sugg 1: After seeing the home-cooked dinner, allocate a fixed portion for the night. Do not keep eating beyond that. 

Sugg 1b: Reduce allocation by 20%. The body and mind may not notice it.

Sugg 2: pre-emptive compensation .. Predict "night time compensation". If positive, then eat some starch (or whatever enticing food) before going home.
Then at home reduce the "allocation" by the pre-comp amount.

Sugg 3: when the craving starts, locate the part of the body. Then locate another part of the body that's comfortable. That makes a pair. Breathe in to the craving part, and breathe out to the comfort part.

Q: since what age did you start to notice appetite out of control
%%A: definitely before 30. Whenever I try to control my appetite, I would often find it hard to control.

Psychological inflexibility .. the behavior + the feeling follows one direction, but the control [self2 judge] is steering towards another direction. Conflict and loss of control. These negative consequences are not necessary. Controlled release/surrender can be beneficial.
-- fuxi: compare EDyw with fooot amputation, losing mobility, losing the use of a finger, or losing mental capacity...
EDyw has a reliable cure -- implant

-- fuxi: dentist tips:
more flossing please
clean the retainer
x-ray every 2Y
--fuxi: dental care
i need more brushing, perhaps more frequent
I , meimei and boy need more frequent dental checks
meimei need to avoid sweet and also hard food

-- fuxi or new: wellness effort = uninspiring
I told grandpa that 1)diet and 2) weekly exercise are more important than earn-more/move-up.

However, wellness effort (esp. diet restriction) is not inspiring, not exciting, not engaging. We have to accept that, if we want to maximize our lifetime total happiness.

Some women may find diet restriction a short-term sacrifice for a huge gratification -- improved body shape.

-- fuxi: 
tanko asked: if healthy longevity is so important to you, what else are you doing beside diet and exercise?
I mentioned strong family bond, peaceful, robust response to adversities such as bonus stigma
Then I mentioned wife's health will be a key factor in my golden years. I might become more dependent on her as I grow older. I will learn to be more independent.

sexual health is another factor for "healthy longevity" though I didn't tell him.

--fuxi: grandma was right about late sleep.
she has difficulty falling asleep. Usually not a problem. 
Once a while she needs to get up early. Her late sleep habit would be clearly harmful.

--fuxi: My mom, wife and friends used to say I don't take care of my hair, my shoes, my skin, my dress...
But look at those guys who do. These guys typically lack self-discipline and now show a belly, sluggish, affected by tabaco, alcohol,,,

Can they do 20 pull-up?

--fuxi: for stable cholesterol level, one test per year is good enough. 3M test no need, esp. when I'm in the U.S.
Remember to include full blood count

--fuxi: luxury, medically unnecessary -- these commercial offerings are effective for some athletes or patients, but not clinically proven to be nearly as effective as medicines
* skincare products
* scalp treatments
* most MLM supplements
* meal timing

--fuxi: 3:52 PM 2/3/2020, 
ERE author said "The amount we spend reflects the extent of failure in our skills and imagination"

However, in wellness I beg to differ. I would take yoga classes and go for 3M dental cleaning because I know (and accept) my failure/limitation in terms of daily flossing. 

Without maid, let's consider buying pre-washed leafy salad. More available in the U.S. 
In SG context... still Cheaper than maid and will boost my self-esteem.

-- "fuxi x 2" means Dram refreshed twice